'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH _lwp_mutex_lock 2 "30 Jul 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
_lwp_mutex_lock, _lwp_mutex_unlock, _lwp_mutex_trylock \- mutual exclusion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/lwp.h>

\fBint\fR \fB_lwp_mutex_lock\fR(\fBlwp_mutex_t *\fR\fImp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fB_lwp_mutex_trylock\fR(\fBlwp_mutex_t *\fR\fImp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fB_lwp_mutex_unlock\fR(\fBlwp_mutex_t *\fR\fImp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions serialize the execution of lightweight processes. They are useful for ensuring that only one lightweight process can execute a critical section of code at any one time (mutual exclusion). LWP mutexes must be initialized to 0 before use.
.sp
.LP
The \fB_lwp_mutex_lock()\fR function locks the LWP mutex pointed to by \fImp\fR. If the mutex is already locked, the calling LWP blocks until the mutex becomes available. When \fB_lwp_mutex_lock()\fR returns, the mutex is locked and the calling LWP is the "owner".
.sp
.LP
The \fB_lwp_mutex_trylock()\fR function attempts to lock the mutex. If the mutex is already locked it returns with an error. If the mutex is unlocked, it is locked and \fB_lwp_mutex_trylock()\fR returns.
.sp
.LP
The \fB_lwp_mutex_unlock()\fR function unlocks a locked mutex. The mutex must be locked and the calling LWP must be the one that last locked the mutex (the owner). If any other LWPs are waiting for the mutex to become available, one of them is unblocked.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fB0\fR is returned. A non-zero value indicates an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If any of the following conditions are detected, \fB_lwp_mutex_lock()\fR, \fB_lwp_mutex_trylock()\fR, and \fB_lwp_mutex_unlock()\fR fail and return the corresponding value:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fImp\fR argument points to an invalid LWP mutex.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fImp\fR argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If any of the following conditions occur, \fB_lwp_mutex_trylock()\fR fails and returns the corresponding value:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
The \fImp\fR argument points to a locked mutex.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBIntro\fR(2), \fB_lwp_cond_wait\fR(2)
