'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH _lwp_kill 2 "8 Aug 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
_lwp_kill \- send a signal to a LWP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/lwp.h>
#include <signal.h>

\fBint\fR \fB_lwp_kill\fR(\fBlwpid_t\fR \fItarget_lwp\fR, \fBint\fR \fIsig\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fB_lwp_kill()\fR function sends a signal to the LWP specified by \fItarget_lwp\fR. The signal that is to be sent is specified by \fIsig\fR and must be one from the list given in \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD). If \fIsig\fR is 0 (the null signal), error checking is performed but no signal is actually sent. This can be used to check the validity of \fItarget_lwp\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fItarget_lwp\fR must be an LWP within the same process as the calling LWP.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fB0\fR is returned. A non-zero value indicates an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If any of the following conditions occur, \fB_lwp_kill()\fR fails and returns the corresponding value:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fIsig\fR argument is not a valid signal number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBESRCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fItarget_lwp\fR argument cannot be found in the current process.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBkill\fR(2), \fBsigaction\fR(2), \fBsigprocmask\fR(2), \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5)
