'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH _lwp_suspend 2 "13 Aug 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
_lwp_suspend, _lwp_continue \- continue or suspend LWP execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/lwp.h>

\fBint\fR \fB_lwp_suspend\fR(\fBlwpid_t\fR \fItarget_lwp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fB_lwp_continue\fR(\fBlwpid_t\fR \fItarget_lwp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fB_lwp_suspend()\fR function immediately suspends the execution of the LWP specified by \fItarget_lwp\fR. On successful return from \fB_lwp_suspend()\fR, \fItarget_lwp\fR is no longer executing. Once a thread is suspended, subsequent calls to \fB_lwp_suspend()\fR have no affect.
.sp
.LP
The \fB_lwp_continue()\fR function resumes the execution of a suspended LWP. Once a suspended LWP is continued, subsequent calls to \fB_lwp_continue()\fR have no effect.
.sp
.LP
A suspended LWP will not be awakened by a signal. The signal stays pending until the execution of the LWP is resumed by \fB_lwp_continue()\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fB0\fR is returned. A non-zero value indicates an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If the following condition occurs, \fB_lwp_suspend()\fR and \fB_lwp_continue()\fR fail and return the corresponding value:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBESRCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
The \fItarget_lwpid\fR argument cannot be found in the current process.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
