'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH settaskid 2 "5 May 2010" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
settaskid, gettaskid, getprojid \- set or get task or project IDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/task.h>
#include <unistd.h>

\fBtaskid_t\fR \fBsettaskid\fR(\fBprojid_t\fR \fIproject\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBtaskid_t\fR \fBgettaskid\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/task.h>
#include <unistd.h>
#include <project.h>

\fBprojid_t\fR \fBgetprojid\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsettaskid()\fR function makes a request of the system to assign a new task \fBID\fR to the calling process, changing the associated project \fBID\fR to that specified. The calling process must have sufficient privileges to perform this operation. The \fIflags\fR argument should be either \fBTASK_NORMAL\fR for a regular task, or \fBTASK_FINAL\fR, which disallows subsequent \fBsettaskid()\fR calls by the created task.
.sp
.LP
The \fBgettaskid()\fR function returns the task \fBID\fR of the calling process.
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetprojid()\fR function returns the project \fBID\fR of the calling process.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return the appropriate task or project \fBID\fR. Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBsettaskid()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The invoking task was created with the \fBTASK_FINAL\fR flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEAGAIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
A resource control limiting the number of tasks, LWPs, or processes in the current project or zone has been exceeded.
.sp
A resource control on the given project would be exceeded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The given project \fBID\fR is not within the valid project \fBID\fR range.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The {\fBPRIV_PROC_TASKID\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set of the calling process.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsetsid\fR(2), \fBproject\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBprivileges\fR(5)
