'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH uname 2 "21 Jul 1999" "SunOS 5.11" "System Calls"
.SH NAME
uname \- get name of current operating system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/utsname.h>

\fBint\fR \fBuname\fR(\fBstruct utsname *\fR\fIname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBuname()\fR function stores information identifying the current operating system in the structure pointed to by \fIname\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBuname()\fR function uses the \fButsname\fR structure, defined in <\fBsys/utsname.h\fR>, whose members include:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
char    sysname[SYS_NMLN];
char    nodename[SYS_NMLN];
char    release[SYS_NMLN];
char    version[SYS_NMLN];
char    machine[SYS_NMLN];
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBuname()\fR function returns a null-terminated character string naming the current operating system in the character array \fBsysname\fR. Similarly, the \fBnodename\fR member contains the name by which the system is known on a communications network. The \fBrelease\fR and \fBversion\fR members further identify the operating system. The \fBmachine\fR member contains a standard name that identifies the hardware on which the operating system is running.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a non-negative value is returned. Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBuname()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fIname\fR argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelAsync-Signal-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBuname\fR(1), \fBsysinfo\fR(2), \fBsysconf\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
