'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH lgrp_affinity_inherit_set 3LGRP "2 June 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Locality Group Library Functions"
.SH NAME
lgrp_affinity_inherit_set \- set lgroup inheritance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-llgrp\fR [ \fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR ]
#include <sys/lgrp_user.h>

int lgrp_affinity_inherit_set(idtype_t \fIidtype\fR, id_t \fIid\fR,
     lgrp_aff_inherit_t \fIinherit_flags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlgrp_affinity_inherit_set()\fR function sets the lgroup affinity inheritance of the specified process or thread. The lgroup affinities can be inherited by child processes or threads across \fBfork\fR(2), \fBexec\fR(2), \fBpthread_create\fR(3C), and \fBthr_create\fR(3C). By default, they are not inherited across \fBfork()\fR, \fBpthread_create()\fR, and \fBthr_create()\fR, but are inherited across the \fBexec\fR functions for compatibility.
.sp
.LP
If the \fIidtype\fR is \fBP_PID\fR, the lgroup inheritance is set for all of the threads in the process. The lgroup inheritance is set for the thread in the current process with LWP ID \fIid\fR if \fIidtype\fR is \fBP_LWPID\fR. If \fIid\fR is \fBP_MYID\fR, then the current LWP or process is specified.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlgrp_aff_inherit_t\fR can be one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLGRP_AFF_INHERIT_DEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
The lgroup affinity inheritance is set to the default value for the specified process or thread.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLGRP_AFF_INHERIT_NONE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
The lgroup affinities are not inherited from the specified process or thread.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLGRP_AFF_INHERIT_FUTURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
The lgroup affinities will be inherited by future children of the specified process or thread.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, -1 is returned and \fIerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlgrp_affinity_inherit_set()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Operation permission is denied to the calling process (see \fBIntro\fR(2)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
An invalid \fIidtype\fR, process or thread ID, or lgroup affinity inheritance was specified.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBIntro\fR(2), \fBexec\fR(2), \fBfork\fR(2), \fBlgrp_affinity_get\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_affinity_inherit_get\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_affinity_set\fR(3LGRP), \fBliblgrp\fR(3LIB), \fBpthread_create\fR(3C), \fBthr_create\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
