'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH lgrp_children 3LGRP "16 Apr 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Locality Group Library Functions"
.SH NAME
lgrp_children \- get children of given lgroup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-llgrp\fR [ \fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR ] 
#include <sys/lgrp_user.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlgrp_children\fR(\fBlgrp_cookie_t\fR \fIcookie\fR, \fBlgrp_id_t\fR \fIparent\fR,
     \fBlgrp_id_t *\fR\fIlgrp_array\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIlgrp_array_size\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlgrp_children()\fR function takes a \fIcookie\fR representing a snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy retrieved from \fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP) and returns the number of lgroups that are children of the specified lgroup. If the \fIlgrp_array\fR and \fIlgrp_array_size\fR arguments are non-null, the array is filled with as many of the children lgroup IDs as will fit, given the size of the array.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\(mi returns the number of child lgroup IDs. Otherwise, it returns \(mi1 and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlgrp_children()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The specified lgroup ID is not valid or the cookie is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBESRCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The specified lgroup ID was not found.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_nlgrps\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_parents\fR(3LGRP), \fBliblgrp\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
