'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH lgrp_view 3LGRP "16 Apr 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Locality Group Library Functions"
.SH NAME
lgrp_view \- get view of lgroup hierarchy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-llgrp\fR [ \fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR ] 
#include <sys/lgrp_user.h>

\fBlgrp_view_t\fR \fBlgrp_view\fR(\fBlgrp_cookie_t\fR \fIcookie\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlgrp_view()\fR function takes a \fIcookie\fR representing the snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy obtained from \fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP) and returns the snapshot's view of the lgroup hierarchy.
.sp
.LP
If the given view is \fBLGRP_VIEW_CALLER\fR, the snapshot contains only the resources that are available to the caller (such as those with respect to processor sets).  When the view is \fBLGRP_VIEW_OS\fR, the snapshot contains what is available to the operating system.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon succesful completion, \fBlgrp_view()\fR returns the view for the snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy represented by the given cookie.  Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlgrp_view()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fIcookie\fR is not valid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlgrp_cookie_stale\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_fini\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP), \fBliblgrp\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
