'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH lgrp_parents 3LGRP "16 Apr 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Locality Group Library Functions"
.SH NAME
lgrp_parents \- get parents of given lgroup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-llgrp\fR [ \fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR ] 
#include <sys/lgrp_user.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlgrp_parents\fR(\fBlgrp_cookie_t\fR \fIcookie\fR, \fBlgrp_id_t\fR \fIchild\fR,
     \fBlgrp_id_t *\fR\fIlgrp_array\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIlgrp_array_size\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlgrp_parents()\fR function takes a \fIcookie\fR representing a snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy obtained from \fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP) and returns the number of parent lgroups of the specified lgroup. If \fIlgrp_array\fR is non-null and the \fIlgrp_array_size\fR is non-zero, the array is filled with as many of the parent lgroup IDs as will fit given the size of the array. For the root lgroup, the number of parents returned is 0 and the \fIlgrp_array\fR argument is not filled in.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBlgrp_parents()\fR returns the number of parent lgroup IDs. Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlgrp_parents()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The specified cookie or lgroup ID is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBESRCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The specified lgroup ID was not found.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlgrp_children\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_nlgrps\fR(3LGRP), \fBliblgrp\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
