'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH hook_nic_event 9S "29 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
hook_nic_event \- data structure describing events related to network interfaces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/neti.h>
#include <sys/hook.h>
#include <sys/hook_event.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBhook_nic_event\fR structure contains fields that relate to an event that has occurred and belongs to a network interface. This structure is passed through to callbacks for \fBNE_PLUMB\fR, \fBNE_UNPLUMB\fR, \fBNE_UP\fR, \fBNE_DOWN\fR and \fBNE_ADDRESS_CHANGE\fR events.
.sp
.LP
A callback may not alter any of the fields in this structure.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
net_data_t           hne_family;      
phy_if_t             pkt_private;              
lif_if_t             hne_lif; 
nic_event_t          hne_event;
nic_event_data_t     hne_data;
size_t               hne_datalen;
 
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The following fields are set for each event:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBhne_family\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
A valid reference for the network protocol that owns this network interface and can be in calls to other \fBnetinfo\fR(9F) functions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBhne_nic\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
The physical interface to which an event belongs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBhne_event\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
A value that indicates the respective event. The current list of available events is:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNE_PLUMB\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
an interface has just been created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNE_UNPLUMB\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An interface has just been destroyed and no more events should be received for it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNE_UP\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An interface has changed the state to "up" and may now generate packet events.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNE_DOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An interface has changed the state to "down" and will no longer generate packet events.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNE_ADDRESS_CHANGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An address on an interface has changed. \fBhne_lif\fR refers to the logical interface for which the change is occurring, \fBhne_data\fR is a pointer to a \fBsockaddr\fR structure that is \fBhne_datalen\fR bytes long and contains the new network address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNE_IFINDEX_CHANGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An interface index has changed. \fBhne_lif\fR refers to the logical interface for which the change is occurring, \fBhne_data\fR is a new \fIifindex\fR value.
.RE

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBnetinfo\fR(9F)
