'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH mac_callbacks 9S "26 Jul 2010" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
mac_callbacks \- MAC callbacks data structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/mac_provider.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris architecture specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmac_callbacks\fR data structure is used by MAC device drivers to expose their entry points to the MAC layer. A pointer to an instance of the \fBmac_callbacks\fR structure is passed through the \fIm_callbacks\fR field of the \fBmac_register\fR(9S) structure as part of the registration of a device driver instance through \fBmac_register\fR(9F).
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint_t          mc_callbacks;   /* Denotes which callbacks are set */
mac_getstat_t   mc_getstat;     /* Get the value of a statistic */
mac_start_t     mc_start;       /* Start the device */
mac_stop_t      mc_stop;        /* Stop the device */
mac_setpromisc_t mc_setpromisc; /* Enable or disable promiscuous mode */
mac_multicst_t  mc_multicst;    /* Enable or disable a multicast addr */
mac_unicst_t    mc_unicst;      /* Set the unicast MAC address */
mac_tx_t        mc_tx;          /* Transmit a packet */
mac_ioctl_t     mc_ioctl;       /* Process an unknown ioctl */
mac_getcapab_t  mc_getcapab;    /* Get capability information */
mac_set_prop_t  mc_setprop;     /* Set property value */
mac_get_prop_t  mc_getprop;     /* Get property value */
mac_prop_info_t mc_propinfo;    /* Get property attributes */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Below are descriptions of the members of the \fBmac_callbacks\fR structure that are visible to the device driver.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImc_callbacks\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Flags specifying which ones of the optional entry points are implemented by the driver. The following flags are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMC_IOCTL\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set by the driver when the \fBmc_ioctl()\fR entry point is present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMC_GETCAPAB\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set by the driver when the \fBmc_getcapab()\fR entry point is present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMC_SETPROP\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set by the driver when the \fBmc_setprop()\fR entry point is present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMC_GETPROP\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set by the driver when the \fBmc_getprop()\fR entry point is present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMC_PROPINFO\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set by the driver when the \fBmc_propinfo()\fR entry point is present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMC_PROPERTIES\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set by a driver which implements all properties entry points (\fBmc_setprop()\fR, \fBmc_getprop()\fR, and \fBmc_propinfo()\fR). Setting \fBMC_PROPERTIES\fR is the equivalent of setting the three flags \fBMC_SETPROP\fR, \fBMC_GETPROP\fR, and \fBMC_PROPINFO\fR.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImc_getstat\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
pointer to driver entry point
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImc_start\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
pointer to driver entry point
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImc_stop\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
pointer to driver entry point
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImc_setpromisc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
pointer to driver entry point
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImc_multicst\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
pointer to driver entry point
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImc_unicst\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
pointer to driver entry point
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImc_tx\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
pointer to driver entry point
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImc_ioctl\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
pointer to driver entry point
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImc_getcapab\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
pointer to driver entry point
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImc_setprop\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
pointer to driver entry point
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImc_getprop\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
pointer to driver entry point
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImc_propinfo\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
pointer to driver entry point
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBmac\fR(9E) for more information about MAC driver entry points.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/header
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBmac_register\fR(9F), \fBmac_register\fR(9S)
