'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH module_info 9S "26 Nov 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Data Structures for Drivers"
.SH NAME
module_info \- STREAMS driver identification and limit value structure 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h> 
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
When a module or driver is declared, several identification and limit values can be set. These values are stored in the \fBmodule_info\fR structure.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmodule_info\fR structure is intended to be read-only. However, the flow control limits (\fBmi_hiwat\fR and \fBmi_lowat\fR) and the packet size limits (\fBmi_minpsz\fR and \fBmi_maxpsz\fR) are copied to the \fBQUEUE\fR structure, where they can be modified.
.sp
.LP
For a driver, \fBmi_idname\fR must match the name of the driver binary file. For a module, \fBmi_idname\fR must match the fname field of the \fBfmodsw\fR structure. See \fBfmodsw\fR(9S) for details.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ushort_t      mi_idnum;      /* module ID number */
char          *mi_idname;    /* module name */
ssize_t       mi_minpsz;     /* minimum packet size */
ssize_t       mi_maxpsz;     /* maximum packet size */
size_t        mi_hiwat;      /* high water mark */
size_t        mi_lowat;      /* low water mark */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The constant \fBFMNAMESZ\fR, limiting the length of a module's name, is set to eight in this release.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfmodsw\fR(9S), \fBqueue\fR(9S) 
.sp
.LP
\fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR 
