'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH srpt_SetTargetState 3SRPT "2 Apr 2010" "SunOS 5.11" "SRP Target Management Library"
.SH NAME
srpt_SetTargetState, srpt_GetTargetState, srpt_ResetTarget \- set and retrieve SRP Target state for a specific HCA
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lsrpt [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libsrpt.h>

int srpt_SetTargetState(char *\fIhca_guid\fR, boolean_t \fIenabled\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
int srpt_GetTargetState(char *\fIhca_guid\fR, boolean_t *\fIenabled\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
int srpt_ResetTarget(char *\fIhca_guid\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIhc_guid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
HCA GUID.  Must be in one of the following forms:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB3BA000100CD18\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
base hex form
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0003BA000100CD18\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
base hex form with leading zeroes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBhca:3BA000100CD18\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
form from cfgadm
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBeui.0003BA000100CD18\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
EUI form
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIenabled\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
boolean value indicating whether a COMSTAR SRP target should be created for this HCA
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsrpt_SetTargetState()\fR function controls whether a COMSTAR SRP target will be created for the specified HCA. If \fIenabled\fR is B_TRUE, an SRP target will be created for this HCA. If \fIenabled\fR is B_FALSE, a target will not be created. This function overrides the default setting for the SRP Target service as set by \fBsrpt_SetDefaultState\fR(3SRPT). Changing the target state takes effect immediately if the SRP target service is online. Targets set to disabled will be offlined and removed; targets set to enabled will be immediately created.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsrpt_GetTargetState()\fR function retrieves the current setting for the specified HCA.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsrpt_ResetTarget()\fR function clears HCA-specific settings. The service-wide defaults will control SRP Target creation for this HCA.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return 0. Otherwise they return a non-zero value to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Resources could not be allocated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
A parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibsrpt\fR(3LIB), \fBsrpt_SetDefaultState\fR(3SRPT), \fBattributes\fR(5)
