'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH FCOE_DeletePort 3FCOE "1 Apr 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "FCoE Port Management Library Functions"
.SH NAME
FCOE_DeletePort \- delete an FCoE port
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lfcoe [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libfcoe.h>

\fBint\fR \fBFCOE_DeletePort\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fImacLinkName\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImacLinkName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
The name of the MAC link from which to delete the FCoE port.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBFCOE_DeletePort()\fR function deletes an FCoE port from the specified MAC link.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_BUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBfcoe\fR driver is busy and cannot complete the operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_MAC_LEN\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The MAC link name exceeds the maximum length.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_MAC_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The FCoE port was not found on the specified MAC link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibfcoe\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
