This license applies to the firmware binary files associated with Emulex
drivers.

THIS PRODUCT CONTAINS FIRMWARE ("EMULEX FIRMWARE") THAT BELONGS TO EMULEX
CORPORATION ("EMULEX"), THE USE OF WHICH IS SUBJECT TO THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT
("AGREEMENT") UNLESS OTHERWISE AGREED TO IN WRITING BY EMULEX.  INSTALLING OR
USING THE EMULEX FIRMWARE CONSTITUTES ACCEPTANCE OF ALL THE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT UNLESS OTHERWISE AGREED TO IN WRITING BY EMULEX.
IF LICENSEE DOES NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT,
LICENSEE SHALL NOT INSTALL OR USE THE EMULEX FIRMWARE.  WRITTEN APPROVAL IS
NOT A PREREQUISITE TO THE VALIDITY OR ENFORCEABILITY OF THIS AGREEMENT.

1.  Limited Licenses

1.1  Derivatives.  Emulex hereby grants Licensee the personal,
nontransferable, nonexclusive, royalty-free right and license to include the
Emulex Firmware in derivative works that Licensee may create under the terms
and conditions of License #1.  For avoidance of doubt, Licensee acknowledges
that the Emulex Firmware is not licensed under nor otherwise subject to the
terms and conditions of License #1.

1.2  Distribution.  Emulex hereby grants Licensee the personal,
nontransferable, nonexclusive, royalty free, right and license to use,
distribute, and sublicense copies of Emulex Firmware solely for use with
Emulex hardware products for which the Emulex Firmware was written and that
Licensee has purchased from Sun Microsystems or its authorized distributors
or resellers.  Such distribution may be on electronic media or via download
from Licensee's website or other electronic means.  Licensee shall grant each
sublicensee a nonexclusive, nontransferable license to use the Emulex
Firmware in Object Code only and shall authorize such sublicensees to make
one archival copy of the Emulex Firmware.  Licensee shall not use, reproduce,
duplicate, copy, or otherwise sublicense, disclose, distribute, or
disseminate the Emulex Firmware except as permitted under this Agreement.

1.3  End User.  Emulex grants Licensee a personal, worldwide,
nontransferable, nonexclusive, royalty-free right and license to use the
Emulex Firmware only with Emulex hardware products and without circumventing
any security or rights management features.

1.4  Restrictions.  Licensee agrees to maintain intact and not modify or
delete Emulex's copyright notice that is contained with each copy of the
Emulex Firmware.  Licensee shall not (1) reverse engineer, reverse compile or
reverse assemble all or any part of the Emulex Firmware, (2) disseminate
performance information or analysis to any third party, other than solely for
product support purposes, from any source relating to the Emulex Firmware, or
cause or permit others to do either of both of the foregoing.  Licensee
agrees to prevent any unauthorized copying of the Emulex Firmware.

2.  Intellectual Property Rights.  The Emulex Firmware is licensed, not sold.
Emulex or its licensors retain all right, title and interest, including
without limitation all intellectual property rights, in and to all copies,
regardless of form or media, of the Emulex Firmware.  The Emulex Firmware
contains trade secrets of Emulex and Licensee agrees that it shall employ
reasonable security precautions to maintain the confidentiality of such trade
secrets.

3.  Indemnity.  Licensee shall defend, indemnify and hold Emulex harmless
from and against any and all claims, damages, liabilities, costs and expenses
(including, without limitation, attorneys' fees) arising out of Licensee's
breach of its obligations under this Agreement.

4.  Term and termination.  The term of this Agreement shall continue until
Licensee (a) ceases exercising its rights under Section 1 of this Agreement,
(b) breaches a material term of this Agreement, or (c) gives written notice
of termination to Emulex.  Upon termination of this Agreement, all copies of
the Emulex Firmware in the possession of Licensee shall be either returned to
Emulex or destroyed by Licensee.

5.  Warranty Disclaimer.  Emulex makes no warranties whatsoever, express or
implied, with respect to the Emulex Firmware.  Licensee agrees that the
Emulex Firmware is accepted and utilized "AS IS."  EMULEX DISCLAIMS ANY AND
ALL PROMISES, REPRESENTATIONS, AND WARRANTIES, EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH
IN THIS AGREEMENT, WITH RESPECT TO THE EMULEX FIRMWARE; ANY DATA,
INFORMATION, OR OTHER MATERIAL FURNISHED TO THE LICENSEE HEREUNDER, INCLUDING
THEIR CONDITION; CONFORMITY TO ANY REPRESENTATION OR DESCRIPTION; THE
EXISTENCE OF ANY LATENT OR PATENT DEFECTS; AND TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY, OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE.

6.  Limitation of Liability.  Emulex shall have no liability to Licensee, or
any third party, whether in contract, tort, negligence or products liability
for any claim, loss of use, business interruption, lost data, lost files, or
for any indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any kind
or nature whatsoever arising out of or in connection with the use of or
inability to use the Emulex Firmware or the performance or operation of the
Emulex Firmware, even if Emulex has been advised of the possibility of such
damages occurring.

8.  Miscellaneous.  The laws of the state of California, without regard to
its choice of law rules, shall govern the interpretation and enforcement of
this Agreement.  The parties are independent contractors of one another.
Nothing herein shall be deemed to create any relationship of agency,
partnership, or joint venture between the parties.  Licensee represents that
it is acting on its own behalf and is not acting as an agent for or on behalf
of any third party, and further agrees that it may not assign its rights or
obligations under this Agreement without prior written consent of Emulex.
Both parties shall adhere to all applicable laws, regulations, and rules
relating to the export of Emulex Firmware and any other information provided
hereunder.  If any term or condition of this Agreement is held invalid,
illegal or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, all the other
terms and conditions shall survive.  The Emulex Firmware may be provided to
units or agencies of the U.S. government only as "commercial computer
firmware," "restricted computer firmware," or with "restricted rights" as
defined in applicable regulations, and may not be provided as source code.
Manufacturer is Emulex Design & Manufacturing Corporation, 3333 Susan St.,
Costa Mesa, CA 92626.
