'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH ddi-forceattach 9P "18 May 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Properties for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi-forceattach, ddi-no-autodetach \- properties controlling driver attach/detach behavior
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Solaris device drivers are attached by  \fBdevfsadm\fR(1M) and by the kernel in response to \fBopen\fR(2) requests from applications. Drivers not currently in use can be detached when the system experiences memory pressure. The \fBddi-forceattach\fR and \fBddi-no-autodetach\fR properties can be used to customize driver attach/detach behavior.
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi-forceattach\fR is an integer property, to be set globally by means of the \fBdriver.conf\fR(4) file. Drivers with this property set to 1 are loaded and attached to all possible instances during system startup. The driver will not be auto-detached due to system memory pressure.
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi-no-autodetach\fR is an integer property to be set globally by means of the \fBdriver.conf\fR(4) file or created dynamically by the driver on a per-instance basis with  \fBddi_prop_update_int\fR(9F). When this property is set to 1, the kernel will not auto-detach driver due to system memory pressure.
.sp
.LP
Note that \fBddi-forceattach\fR implies \fBddi-no-autodetach\fR. Setting either property to a non-integer value or an integer value not equal to 1 produces undefined results. These properties do not prevent driver detaching in response to reconfiguration requests, such as executing commands \fBcfgadm\fR(1M), \fBmodunload\fR(1M), \fBrem_drv\fR(1M), and \fBupdate_drv\fR(1M).
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdriver.conf\fR(4)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
