'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH inquiry-device-type 9P "18 May 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Properties for Drivers"
.SH NAME
inquiry-device-type, inquiry-vendor-id, inquiry-product-id, inquiry-revision-id, inquiry-serial-no \- inquiry properties for SCSI devices
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These are optional properties, typically created by the system, for SCSI target devices. References to these properties should use their \fBsys/scsi/impl/inquiry.h\fR defined names.
.sp
.LP
\fBinquiry-device-type\fR is an integer property. When present, the least significant byte of the value indicates the device type as defined by the SCSI standard. Consumers of this property should compare the property values with \fBDTYPE_*\fR values defined in \fBsys/scsi/generic/inquiry.h\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBinquiry-vendor-id\fR is a string property. When present, it contains the vendor information. This information typically comes from the \fBscsi_inquiry\fR(9S) "\fBinq_vid\fR" field.
.sp
.LP
\fBinquiry-product-id\fR is a string property. When present, it contains the product identification. This information typically comes from the \fBscsi_inquiry\fR(9S) "\fBinq_pid\fR" field. 
.sp
.LP
\fBinquiry-revision-id\fR is a string property. When present, it contains the product revision. This revision typically comes from the \fBscsi_inquiry\fR(9S) "\fBinq_rev\fR" field.
.sp
.LP
\fBinquiry-serial-no\fR is a string property. When present, it contains the serial number. The serial number is typically obtained from the \fBEVPD\fR "Unit Serial Number" SCSI INQUIRY data (page 0x80).
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBscsi_inquiry\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Values established at \fBtran_tgt_init\fR(9E) time by an \fBHBA\fR driver take precedence over values established by the system, and \fBHBA\fR driver values may not be the same length as the typical \fBscsi_inquiry\fR(9S) field.
