'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH sasl_verifyfile_t 3SASL "27 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_verifyfile_t \- the SASL file verification callback function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

typedef enum {
       SASL_VRFY_PLUGIN,       /* a DLL/shared library plugin */
       SASL_VRFY_CONF,         /* a configuration file */
       SASL_VRFY_PASSWD,       /* a password storage file */
       SASL_VRFY_OTHER         /* some other file type */
} sasl_verify_tyep_t

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_verifyfile_t\fR(\fBvoid *\fR\fIcontext\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIfile\fR,
     \fBsasl_verifyfile_t\fR \fItype\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_verifyfile_t()\fR callback function check whether a given file can be used by the SASL library. Applications use \fBsasl_verifyfile_t()\fR to check the environment to ensure that plugins or configuration files cannot be written to.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcontext\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The context from the callback record
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The full path of the file to verify
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fItype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The type of the file
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like other SASL callback functions, \fBsasl_verifyfile_t()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error code. See <\fBsasl.h\fR> for a complete list of SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The call to \fBsasl_verifyfile_t()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library/security/libsasl
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
