'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH sasl_client_init 3SASL "22 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_client_init \- initialize SASL client authentication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_client_init\fR(\fBconst sasl_callback_t *\fR\fIcallbacks\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_client_init()\fR interface to initialize SASL. The \fBsasl_client_init()\fR interface must be called before any calls to \fBsasl_client_start\fR(3SASL). The call to \fBsasl_client_init()\fR initiallizes all SASL client drivers, for example, authentication mechanisms. SASL client drivers are usually found in the \fB/usr/lib/sasl\fR directory.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcallbacks\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Specifies the base callbacks for all client connections. 
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_client_init()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
The call to \fBsasl_client_init()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_BADVERS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
There is a mismatch in the mechanism version.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_BADPARAM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
There is an error in the configuration file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_NOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
There is not enough memory to complete the operation.
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other error codes indicate an error situation that must be handled, or the authentication session should be quit. See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library/security/libsasl
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
While most of \fBlibsasl\fR is MT-Safe, no other \fBlibsasl\fR function should be called until this function completes.
