'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH sasl_log_t 3SASL "27 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_log_t \- the SASL logging callback function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_log_t\fR(\fBvoid *\fR\fIcontext\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlevel\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fImessage\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_log_t()\fR function to log warning and error messages from the SASL library. \fBsyslog\fR(3C) is used, unless another logging function is specified.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcontext\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The logging context from the callback record.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIlevel\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The logging level. Possible values for \fIlevel\fR include:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_LOG_NONE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Do not log anything.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_LOG_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Log unusual errors. This is the default log level.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_LOG_FAIL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Log all authentication failures.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_LOG_WARN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Log non-fatal warnings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_LOG_NOTE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Log non-fatal warnings (more verbose than \fBSASL_LOG_WARN\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_LOG_DEBUG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Log non-fatal warnings (more verbose than \fBSASL_LOG_NOTE\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_LOG_TRACE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Log traces of internal protocols.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_LOG_PASS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Log traces of internal protocols, including passwords.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImessage\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The message to log
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like other SASL callback functions, \fBsasl_log_t()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error code. See <\fBsasl.h\fR> for a complete list of SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The call to \fBsasl_log_t()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library/security/libsasl
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBsyslog\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
