'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH sasl_auxprop_request 3SASL "22 Aug 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_auxprop_request \- request auxialliary properties from SASL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_auxprop_request\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char **\fR\fIpropnames\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_auxprop_request()\fR interface requests that the SASL library obtain properties form any auxialiary property plugins that might be installed, for example, the user's home directory from an LDAP server. The lookup occurs just after username canonicalization is complete. Therefore, the request should be made before the call to \fBsasl_server_start\fR(3SASL), but after the call to \fBsasl_server_new\fR(3SASL).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The \fBsasl_conn_t\fR for which the request is being made
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpropnames\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
A null-terminated array of property names to request. This array must persist until a call to \fBsasl_dispose\fR(3SASL) on the \fBsasl_conn_t\fR.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_auxprop_request()\fR returns \fBSASL_OK\fR upon success. See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for a discussion of other SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library/security/libsasl
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_dispose\fR(3SASL), \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBsasl_server_new\fR(3SASL), \fBsasl_server_start\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
