'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH sasl_checkapop 3SASL "22 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_checkapop \- check an APOP challenge or response
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_checkapop\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIchallenge\fR,
     \fBunsigned\fR \fIchallen\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIresponse\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIresplen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_checkapop()\fR interface checks an APOP challenge or response. APOP is an option POP3 authentication command that uses a shared secret password. See \fIRFC 1939\fR.
.sp
.LP
If \fBsasl_checkapop()\fR is called with a \fINULL\fR challenge, \fBsasl_checkapop()\fR will check to see if the APOP mechanism is enabled.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The \fBsasl_conn_t\fR for which the request is being made
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIchallenge\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The challenge sent to the client
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIchallen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The length of \fIchallenge\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIresponse\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The client response
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIresplens\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The length of \fIresponse\fR
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_checkapop()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Indicates that the authentication is complete
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other error codes indicate an error situation that must be handled, or the authentication session should be quit. See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library/security/libsasl
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
Meyers, J. and Rose, M. \fIRFC 1939, Post Office Protocol - Version 3\fR. Network Working Group. May 1996.
