'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH sasl_errdetail 3SASL "14 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_errdetail \- retrieve detailed information about an error
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBconst char *\fR \fBsasl_errdetail\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_errdetail()\fR interface returns an internationalized string that is a message that describes the error that occurred on a SASL connection. The \fBsasl_errdetail()\fR interface provides a more user friendly error message than the SASL error code returned when SASL indicates that an error has occurred on a connection. See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL). 
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
The SASL connection context for which the inquiry is made.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errdetail()\fR returns the string that describes the error that occurred, or \fINULL\fR, if there was an error retrieving it.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library/security/libsasl
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBsasl_seterror\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
