'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH sasl_errstring 3SASL "14 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_errstring \- translate a SASL return code to a human-readable form
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBconst char *\fR \fBsasl_errstring\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsaslerr\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIlanglist\fR,
     \fBconst char **\fR\fIoutlang\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_errstring()\fR interface is called to convert a SASL return code from an integer into a human readable string.
.sp
.LP
You should not used the \fBsasl_errstring()\fR interface to extract error code information from SASL. Applications should use \fBsasl_errdetail\fR(3SASL) instead, which contains this error information and more. 
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_errstring()\fR interface supports only \fBi-default\fR and \fBi-local\fR at this time.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsaslerr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The error number to be translated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIlanglist\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
A comma-separated list of languages. See \fIRFC 1766\fR. If the\fIlanglist\fR parameter has a\fINULL\fR value, the default language,\fBi-default\fR, is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIoutlang\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The language actually used. The \fIoutlang\fR parameter can be \fINULL\fR. The returned error string is in \fBUTF-8\fR.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errstring()\fR returns the string that describes the error that occurred, or \fINULL\fR, if there was an error retrieving it.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library/security/libsasl
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBsasl_seterror\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
Alvestrand, H. \fIRFC 1766, Tags for the Identification of Languages\fR. Network Working Group. November 1995.
