'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH sasl_decode 3SASL "28 Aug 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_decode \- decode data received
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_decode\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIinput\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIinputlen\fR,
     \fBconst char **\fR\fIoutput\fR, \fBunsigned *\fR\fIoutputlen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_decode()\fR interface to decode data received. After authentication, call this function on all data received. The data is decoded from encrypted or signed form to plain data. If no security lay is negotiated, the output is identical to the input.
.sp
.LP
Do not give \fBsasl_decode()\fR more data than the negotiated \fBmaxbufsize\fR. See \fBsasl_getprop\fR(3SASL).
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_decode()\fR can complete successfully although the value of \fIoutputlen\fR is zero. If this is the case, wait for more data and call \fBsasl_decode()\fR again.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The SASL connection context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIinput\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Data received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIinputlen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The length of \fIinput\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIoutput\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The decoded data. \fIoutput\fR must be allocated or freed by the library.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIoutputlen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The length of \fIoutput\fR.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_decode()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The call to \fBsasl_decode()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library/security/libsasl
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBsasl_getprop\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
