'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH sasl_server_init 3SASL "22 Oct 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_server_init \- SASL server authentication initialization
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_server_init\fR(\fBconst sasl_callback *\fR\fIcallbacks\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIappname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_server_init()\fR interface to initialize SASL. You must call \fBsasl_server_init()\fR before you make a call to \fBsasl_server_start()\fR. \fBsasl_server_init()\fR may be called only once per process. A call to \fBsasl_server_init()\fR initializes all SASL mechanism drivers, that is, the authentication mechanisms. The SASL mechanism drivers are usually found in the \fB/usr/lib/sasl\fR directory.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcallbacks\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Specifies the base callbacks for all client connections. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIappname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The name of the application for lower level logging. For example, the sendmail server calls \fIappname\fR this way: 
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sasl_server_init(srvcallbacks, "Sendmail")
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_server_init()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The call to \fBsasl_server_init()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other error codes indicate an error situation that must be handled, or the authentication session should be quit. See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library/security/libsasl
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
While most of \fBlibsasl\fR is MT-Safe, no other \fBlibsasl\fR function should be called until this function completes.
