'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH sip_get_num_via 3SIP "23 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_get_num_via, sip_get_branchid \- get VIA header specific attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBint\fR \fIsip_get_num_via\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR, 
     \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fIsip_get_branchid\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR, 
     \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_get_num_via()\fR function returns the number of \fBVIA\fR headers in the \fBSIP\fR message \fIsip_msg\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_get_branchid()\fR function returns the branch ID value from the topmost \fBVIA\fR header. The caller is responsible for freeing the returned string.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_get_num_via()\fR function returns the number of \fBVIA\fR headers on success.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_get_branchid()\fR function returns the branch ID on success and \fBNULL\fR on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of \fBerrno\fR is not changed by these calls in the event of an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If the error is non-null, one of the following values is set:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fIsip_msg\fR is \fBNULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
For the \fIsip_get_branchid\fR function, there is no \fBVIA\fR header or the \fBVIA\fR header has no branch parameter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEPROTO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
For the \fIsip_sip_get_trans.3sipget_branchid\fR function, the \fBVIA\fR value is invalid. The parser encountered an error or errors while parsing the \fBVIA\fR header.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
For the \fIsip_get_branchid\fR function, there is an error in allocating memory for the branch ID.
.RE

.sp
.LP
On success, the value of the location pointed to by \fIerror\fR is set to \fB0\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibsip\fR(3LIB)
