'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH sip_add_branchid_to_via 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_add_branchid_to_via \- add a branch parameter to the topmost VIA header in the SIP message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBint\fR \fIsip_add_branchid_to_via\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR, \fBchar *\fR\fIbranchid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_add_branchid_to_via()\fR function adds a branch \fIparam\fR to the topmost \fBVIA\fR header in the \fBSIP\fR message \fIsip_msg\fR. Note that a new header is created as a result of adding the branch parameter and the old header is marked deleted. Applications with multiple threads working on the same \fBVIA\fR header need to take note of this.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
These functions return \fB0\fR on success and the appropriate error value on failure.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure, functions that return an error value may return one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Mandatory parameters are not provided or are NULL.
.sp
For \fBsip_add_branchid_to_via()\fR, the topmost \fBVIA\fR header already has a branch \fIparam\fR or the \fBSIP\fR message does not have a \fBVIA\fR header.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The message cannot be modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
There is an error allocating memory for creating headers/parameters.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibsip\fR(3LIB)
