'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH sip_msg_to_str 3SIP "25 Jan 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Session Initiation Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sip_msg_to_str, sip_hdr_to_str, sip_reqline_to_str, sip_respline_to_str, sip_sent_by_to_str \- return string representations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBchar *\fR\fIsip_msg_to_str\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR, 
     \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fIsip_hdr_to_str\fR(\fBsip_header_t\fR \fIsip_header\fR, 
     \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fIsip_reqline_to_str\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR, 
     \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fIsip_respline_to_str\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR, 
     \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fIsip_sent_by_to_str\fR(\fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_msg_to_str()\fR function returns the string representation of the \fBSIP\fR message \fIsip_msg\fR. Deleted headers are not included in the returned string. The caller is responsible for freeing the returned string.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_hdr_to_str()\fR function returns the string representation of the \fBSIP\fR header \fIsip_header\fR. The caller is responsible for freeing the returned string.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_reqline_to_str()\fR function returns the string representation of the request line from the \fBSIP\fR message \fIsip_msg\fR. The caller is responsible for freeing the returned string.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_respline_to_str()\fR function returns the string representation of the response line from the \fBSIP\fR message \fIsip_msg\fR. The caller is responsible for freeing the returned string.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_sent_by_to_str()\fR function can be used to retrieve the list of sent-by values registered with the stack. The returned string is a comma separated list of sent-by values. The caller is responsible for freeing the returned string.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_msg_to_str()\fR, \fBsip_hdr_to_str()\fR, \fBsip_reqline_to_str()\fR, \fBsip_respline_to_str()\fR, and \fBsip_sent_by_to_str()\fR functions return the relevant string on success and \fBNULL\fR on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of \fBerrno\fR is not changed by these calls in the event of an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
For the \fBsip_msg_to_str()\fR, \fBsip_hdr_to_str()\fR, \fBsip_reqline_to_str()\fR, and \fBsip_respline_to_str()\fR, one of the following values is set if the error is non-null:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Input is null.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Memory allocation failure.
.RE

.sp
.LP
On success, the value of the location pointed to by \fIerror\fR is set to \fB0\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibsip\fR(3LIB)
