'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH mac_capab_rings 9E "16 Jun 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Driver Entry Points"
.SH NAME
mac_capab_rings, mr_rget, mr_gget, mr_gaddring, mr_gremring \- MAC capab rings driver entry points
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/mac_provider.h>

void prefix_ring_get(void *\fIdriver_handle\fR, mac_ring_type_t \fIrtype\fR,
     int \fIring_index\fR, mac_ring_info_t *\fIrinfop\fR,
     mac_ring_handle_t \fIring_handle\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
void prefix_group_get(void *\fIdriver_handle\fR, mac_ring_type_t \fIrtype\fR,
     int \fIgroup_index\fR, mac_group_info_t *\fIginfop\fR,
     mac_group_handle_t \fIgroup_handle\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
void prefix_group_add_ring(mac_group_driver_t \fIgroup_handle\fR,
     mac_ring_driver_t ring_handle, mac_ring_type_t rtype);
.fi

.LP
.nf
void prefix_group_remove_ring(mac_group_driver_t \fIgroup_handle\fR,
     mac_ring_driver_t \fIring_handle\fR, mac_ring_type_t, \fIrtype\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdriver_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
Pointer to the driver-private handle which was specified by the device driver through the \fIm_driver\fR field of the \fBmac_register\fR(9S) structure during registration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIrtype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
The ring type being queried, either RX or TX rings.
.sp
\fBMAC_RING_TYPE_TX\fR for TX rings or TX ring groups.
.sp
\fBMAC_RING_TYPE_RX\fR for RX rings or RX ring groups.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIgroup_index\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
The ring group index supplied by the MAC layer to query a specific driver ring group. The group index should not exceed the number of ring groups reported in response to a \fBMAC_CAPAB_RINGS\fR query.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIring_index\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
The ring index supplied by the MAC layer to query a specific ring. The ring index should not exceed the number of rings reported in a \fBMAC_CAPAB_RINGS\fR query.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIrinfop\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
The \fBmac_ring_info\fR(9S) structure to be filled by the driver for the mac layer. This structure provides the MAC layer the specific information it requires to manipulate this specific driver ring.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIginfop\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
The \fBmac_group_info\fR(9S) structure to be filled by the driver for the mac layer. This structure provides the MAC layer the specific information it requires to manipulate this specific driver ring group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIgroup_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
An opaque handle to the MAC layer's representation of this ring group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIring_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
An opaque handle to the MAC layer's representation of this ring.
.RE

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris architecture specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The entry points described below are implement the MAC device driver and passed to the MAC layer through the \fBmac_capab_rings\fR structure as part of the response to a \fBMAC_CAPAB_RINGS\fR request from the MAC layer.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmr_gget()\fR function requests the driver to fill in the \fBmac_group_info\fR structure in response to the MAC layer. The MAC layer then uses the response to further manipulate the ring group of the driver.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmr_rget()\fR function requests the driver to fill in the \fBmac_ring_info\fR structure in response to the MAC layer. The MAC layer then uses the response to further manipulate a ring controlled by the driver.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmr_gaddring()\fR function adds the specified ring to the specified ring group. This action should be implemented only in MAC drivers that implement dynamic ring grouping as described in \fBmac_capab_rings\fR(9S).
.sp
.LP
The \fBmr_gremring()\fR function removes the specified ring from the specified ring group. This action should be implemented only in MAC drivers that implement dynamic ring grouping as described in \fBmac_capab_rings\fR(9S).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
None of these entry points have return values.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/header
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBmac_capab_rings\fR(9S), \fBmac_group_info\fR(9S), \fBmac_register\fR(9S), \fBmac_ring_info\fR(9S)
