.\"
.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" ident	"%Z%%M%	%I%	%E% SMI"
.\"
.TH which_scm 1 "11 April 2008"
.SH NAME
which_scm \- Report Source Code Management system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B which_scm

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B which_scm
detects the Source Code Management (SCM) system in use, and prints a
single line of text containing a one-word name for the SCM, followed
by a space, and then the top-level directory path for the workspace.

The typical usage within a ksh script is:
.nf
        which_scm | read SCM_TYPE CODEMGR_WS || exit 1
.fi

If CODEMGR_WS is set in the environment, then \fBwhich_scm\fR
checks only that directory, assuming that it is the top of the tree.

If CODEMGR_WS is not set, then \fBwhich_scm\fR searches upwards to
find the containing workspace path, and reports that path.

.B which_scm
can detect the following types of SCM systems (these are the keywords
used in the output format):
.nf
	cvs
	mercurial
	rcs
	sccs
	subversion
	teamware
.fi

If the type of SCM in use is not known, then the string "unknown" is
printed, and the path returned is $CODEMGR_WS (if set) or the current
working directory.  The command may exit with an error if the SCM
could be detected, but is unusable.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following environment variable is used by \fBwhich_scm\fR:

.PP
\fBCODEMGR_WS\fR path to current workspace.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR cvs(1) ,
.IR hg(1) ,
.IR sccs(1)
.IR svn(1) ,
.IR workspace(1)
