.\" ident	"%Z%%M%	%I%	%E% SMI"
.\" Copyright 2005 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" 
.\"
.TH checkpaths 1 "25 September 2003"
.SH NAME
.I checkpaths
\- check file path containing files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcheckpaths [-b] [root_paths...]\fP
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "OS-Net build tools" "checkpaths" "" "\fBcheckpaths\fP"
.LP
.I checkpaths
inspects the contents of various files within an OS-Net workspace to
ensure that the file paths listed in those files are valid.  This
provides an integrity check of the workspace to catch cases where a
file was removed or renamed without updating the corresponding
\fIinc.flg\fP, \fIcry_files\fP, or \fIexception_list\fP entry.
.LP
.I checkpaths
is typically called from \fBnightly(1)\fP.  It may be invoked
interactively within a workspace, and requires that at least
\fI$CODEMGR_WS\fP is set to a valid workspace.  It is not necessary
that a full build has been performed in the workspace to be tested,
but if full build(s) are not available under the
\fI$CODEMGR_WS/proto/\fP directory, then the corresponding exclusion
lists are not verified.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.TP 4
.B \-b
Disable processing of files that list derived (built) objects.  This
should be set if the \fI$CODEMGR_WS/proto/\fP directory exists, but
the contents are known to be bad.  \fBnightly(1)\fP will typically set
this flag if the build fails.
.LP
.TP 4
.B root_paths...
By default, checkpaths validates all of the proto areas for known
architectures that exist in the \fI$CODEMGR_WS/proto/\fP directory.
To specify other root directories, list them as arguments on the
command line.  It is an error if any of the root paths specified does
not end with a known architecture.
.LP
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.LP
.B CODEMGR_WS
.RS 4
The root of your TeamWare workspace, which is the directory
containing \fICodemgr_wsdata\fP.
.RE
.LP
.B SRC
.RS 4
The location of your ON source tree.  Defaults to
\fI$CODEMGR_WS/usr/src/\fP if not specified.
.RE
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.B nightly(1).
