.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.TH codereview 1 "August 5, 2008"
.UC
.SH NAME
codereview \- Diff list generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B codereview
[-e] [-h\f2heading\fP] [-r]
.I oldfile
.I newfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.I codereview
command expects two ASCII text files as input
and produces Postscript describing the differences between the files.
The first file is assumed to be the older version,
and the second file is assumed to be the newer version.
If either
.I oldfile
or
.I newfile
is
.BR - ,
the corresponding file is taken from the standard input.
The output goes to standard output and lists all lines from both files,
with lines changed from the first to the second being highlighted in gray.
Lines deleted from the first file are listed in italic,
while lines added to the second file are listed in bold.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-e
Elide unchanged functions.
Functions which are unchanged will be heuristically eliminated from the listing.
Only the function end is parsed.
The assumption is that a brace ('}')
in column one represents the end of a function.
Thus unchanged structure definitions may be elided also.
For support of assembly language files,
the string "SET_SIZE(" occurring in a line is assumed
to mark the end of a function also.
.TP
.BI \-h heading
Put a header on each page.
The
.I heading
string appears at the upper left of each page,
and the page number appears at the upper right.
.TP
.B \-r
Enable page reversal so that the pages appear in the correct sequence
in the output tray of printers like the Apple LaserWriter.
The default is not to perform page reversal,
which is correct for printers like the NEC Silentwriter LC-890.
.SH FILES
/tmp/lwlpXXXXXX		\- temporary file used for page reversal
.SH LIMITATIONS
The maximum input line length is 1024 characters.
This should not present a problem
since the corresponding output line length would be too long to be printed.
The program silently truncates input lines that are too long.
.SH NOTES
The command
.sp 0.5v
.ti +0.4i
pageview -right -h 17 -w 11 -Ws 1100 850 -dpi 100 out.ps
.sp 0.5v
is useful for displaying the results of
.IR codereview .
.SH AUTHOR
John Zolnowsky
.br
SunSoft, Inc.
