.\" 
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms."
.\"
.TH hgsetup 1 "2 October 2008"
.SH NAME
.I hgsetup
\- sets up a user's ~/.hgrc for development of ON with Mercurial
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhgsetup [-f] [-c \fIcdm_path\fP] [-m \fImerge_path\fP] [-n \fIname\fP] [-e \fIemail\fP] [-p \fIproxy\fP] [-s \fIstyle_path\fP]
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "OS-Net build tools" "hgsetup" "" "\fBhgsetup\fP"
.LP
The hgsetup script sets up a user's ~/.hgrc (hgrc(5)) file for development
of ON (OS/Net) with Mercurial.  
.LP
It populates the author and email fields with the user's information.
It loads the Cadmium extension.
It aliases canonical repositories for onnv-gate.
It configures Mercurial to use appropriate merge tools.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B -f
Force the user's ~/.hgrc to be overwritten if one already exists
.TP 10
.B -c
Override the path to the Cadmium extension for Mercurial to load
.TP 10
.B -m
Override the default merge configuration, such that a single
specified tool is used.
.TP 10
.B -n
Specify the name to use for commits (default is taken from passwd file)
.TP 10
.B -e
Specify the email address to use for commits.
For SWAN users the default is taken from an LDAP query, otherwise -e 
is mandatory.
.TP 10
.B -p
Specify an http_proxy to use for interacting with HTTP repositories
.TP 10
.B -s
Override the path to the Mercurial style file
.LP
.SH OUTPUT
.LP
Generates a .hgrc file in the user's home directory.
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
.IR hgrc(5),
.IR hg(1),
