'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH iwi 7D "16 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
iwi \- Intel Pro. Wireless 802.11a/b/g IPW2200B/G IPW2915A/B/G Driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The  \fBiwi\fR \fI802.11b/g \fR wireless NIC driver is a multi-threaded, loadable, clonable,  GLDv3-based STREAMS driver supporting  the Data Link Provider Interface, \fBdlpi\fR(7P), on Intel Pro Wireless 2200BG 2915ABG chipset-based wireless NIC's. Driver functions include controller  initialization, wireless \fI802.11b \fR infrastructure network connection, WEP and frame transmit and receive. 
.SH DRIVER CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
The \fBiwi\fR driver performs auto-negotiation to determine the data rate and mode. Supported \fI802.11b \fR data rates are 1, 2, 5.5 and 11 Mbits/sec. Supported \fI802.11g\fR data rates are 1, 2, 5.5, 11, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 54 Mbits/sec. 
.sp
.LP
The \fBiwi\fR driver supports only BSS networks (also known as "ap" or "infrastructure" networks) and "open"(or "open-system") or "shared system" authentication. Only WEP encryption is currently supported. You perform configuration and administration tasks using the \fBdladm\fR(1M) utility.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/iwi*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
Special character device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/kernel/drv/iwi\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
32-bit ELF kernel module (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/iwi\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
64-bit ELF kernel module (x86).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitydriver/network/wlan/iwi
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdladm\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBgld\fR(7D), \fBdlpi\fR(7P)
.sp
.LP
\fIANSI/IEEE Std 802.11- Standard for Wireless LAN  Technology\fR \(em 1999
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE Std 802.11a- Standard for Wireless LAN  Technology-Rev. A\fR\(em 2003
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE Std 802.11b - Standard  for  Wireless  LAN  Technology-Rev. B \fR\(em 2003
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE Std 802.11g- Standard for  Wireless  LAN  Technology  -Rev. G\fR\(em 2003
