'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2000 Sun Microsystems Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.TH pcn 7D "20 Oct 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
pcn \- AMD PCnet Ethernet controller device driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/dev/pcn\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The  \fBpcn\fR Ethernet driver is a multi-threaded,  loadable, clonable driver for the  AMD PCnet family of Ethernet controllers that use the Generic  \fBLAN\fR Driver (\fBGLD\fR) facility to implement the required  \fBSTREAMS\fR and Data Link Provider (see  \fBdlpi\fR(7P)) interfaces.
.sp
.LP
This driver supports a number of integrated motherboards and  add-in adapters based on the AMD PCnet-ISA, PCnet-PCI, and  PCnet-32 controller chips. The  \fBpcn\fR driver functions include controller initialization, frame  transmit and receive, functional addresses,  promiscuous and multicast support, and error  recovery and reporting.
.SH APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE
.sp
.LP
The cloning character-special device, \fB/dev/pcn\fR, is used to access all PCnet devices installed in the system.
.SH \fBpcn\fR AND \fBDLPI\fR
.sp
.LP
The \fBpcn\fR driver uses the Solaris \fBGLD\fR module  which handles all the \fBSTREAMS\fR and \fBDLPI\fR specific functions of the driver. It is a \fIstyle 2\fR \fBDLPI\fR driver and therefore supports only the connectionless mode of data transfer. Thus, a \fBDLPI\fR user should issue a \fBDL_ATTACH_REQ\fR primitive to select the device to be used. Valid \fBDLPI\fR primitives are defined in \fB<sys/dlpi.h>\fR\&. Refer to \fBdlpi\fR(7P) for more information.
.sp
.LP
The device is initialized on the first attach and de-initialized (stopped) on the last detach.
.sp
.LP
The values returned by the driver in the \fBDL_INFO_ACK\fR primitive in response to a \fBDL_INFO_REQ\fR from the user are:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Maximum \fBSDU\fR is \fB1500\fR (\fBETHERMTU\fR - defined in \fB<sys/ethernet.h>\fR).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Minimum \fBSDU\fR is \fB0\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBDLSAP\fR address length is \fB8\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBMAC\fR type is \fBDL_ETHER\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBsap\fR length value is \fB\(mi2\fR, meaning the physical address component is followed immediately by a 2-byte \fBsap\fR component within the \fBDLSAP\fR address.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Service mode is \fBDL_CLDLS\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
No optional quality of service (QOS) support is included at present, accordingly, the \fBQOS\fR fields are \fB0\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Provider style is \fBDL_STYLE2\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Version is \fBDL_VERSION_2\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Broadcast address value is the Ethernet/IEEE broadcast address (\fBFF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF\fR).
.RE
.sp
.LP
Once in the \fBDL_ATTACHED\fR state, the user must send a \fBDL_BIND_REQ\fR to associate a particular Service Access Point (SAP) with the stream.
.SS "Known Problems and Limitations"
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Occasional data corruption has occurred when \fBpcn\fR and \fBpcscsi\fR drivers in HP Vectra XU 5/90 and Compaq Deskpro XL systems are used under high network and  \fBSCSI\fR loads. These drivers do not perform well in a production server. A possible workaround is to disable the  \fBpcn\fR device with the system BIOS and use a separate add-in network interface.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The Solaris \fBpcn \fRdriver does not support IRQ 4.
.RE
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/pcn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Character special device
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/pcn.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Configuration file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecturex86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5), \fBdlpi\fR(7P), \fBstreamio\fR(7I)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
\fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
