'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
.TH sdcard 7D "16 Mar 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
sdcard \- SD/MMC memory card driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsdcard\fR memory card driver supports MultiMediaCard (MMC), Secure Digital (SD), and Secure Digital High Capacity (SDHC) memory cards. It uses the \fBblkdev\fR(7D) service to present these cards to the system as SCSI disks on a virtual SCSI bus, creating a child device to be serviced with \fBsd\fR(7D). Each card appears as its own SCSI LUN. Cards are hot-pluggable and removable.
.SH DEVICE SPECIAL FILES
.sp
.LP
Disk block special file names are located in \fB/dev/dsk\fR. Raw file names are located in \fB/dev/rdsk\fR.  See \fBsd\fR(7D).
.SH IOCTLS
.sp
.LP
See \fBdkio\fR(7I)
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
See \fBsd\fR(7D) and \fBblkdev\fR(7D). Additionally, \fBsdcard\fR may issue the following warnings, which indicate a failure to identify the card as a supported type:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"Unknown SD CSD version (%d)"
"Unknown MMC CSD version (%d)"
"Unknown MMCA version (%d)"
"Card type unknown"
.fi
.in -2

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
Device special files for the storage device are created in the same way as those for a SCSI disk. See \fBsd\fR(7D) for more information.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/dev/dsk/c\fIn\fRt\fIn\fRd\fIn\fRs\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
Block files for disks
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/dev/rdsk/c\fIn\fRt\fIn\fRd\fIn\fRs\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
Raw files for disks
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/kernel/drv/sdcard\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
32-bit ELF kernel module (x86)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/kernel/misc/amd64/sdcard\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
64-bit ELF kernel module (x86)
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecturex86
_
Availabilitydriver/storage/sdcard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBrmformat\fR(1), \fBrmmount\fR(1), \fBcfgadm_scsi\fR(1M), \fBcfgadm_sdcard\fR(1M), \fBfdisk\fR(1M), \fBmount\fR(1M), \fBumount\fR(1M), \fBscsi\fR(4), \fBvfstab\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBblkdev\fR(7D), \fBsd\fR(7D), \fBsda\fR(7D), \fBdkio\fR(7I), \fBpcfs\fR(7FS)
.sp
.LP
\fIOracle Solaris Administration: Common Tasks\fR
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
See \fBsd\fR(7D).
