'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfSetPersistMethod 3STMF "16 Nov 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfSetPersistMethod \- set persistence method for the stmf service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lstmf [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfSetPersistMethod\fR(\fBuint8_t\fR \fIpersistType\fR, \fBboolean_t\fR \fIserviceSet\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpersistType\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
The requested persistence setting. Can be either \fBSTMF_PERSIST_SMF\fR or \fBSTMF_PERSIST_NONE\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIserviceSet\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
Set to indicate whether the setting should persist on the stmf service. When set to \fBB_FALSE\fR, this setting is only applicable for the duration of the current library open or until a subsequent call is made to change the setting.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfSetPersistMethod()\fR function sets the persistence method for stmf.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
The \fIpersistType\fR argument is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
