'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfInitProxyDoor 3STMF "29 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfInitProxyDoor \- establish the door server with the STMF proxy service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfInitProxyDoor\fR(\fBint *\fR\fIhdl\fR, \fBint\fR \fIfd\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIhdl\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
a pointer to an \fBint\fR that will contain the handle for the proxy door to be used in calls to \fBstmfPostProxyMsg\fR(3STMF) and \fBstmfDestroyProxyDoor\fR(3STMF).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
the door file descriptor for the established door server
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfInitProxyDoor()\fR function establishes the door server with the STMF proxy service. The STMF proxy service is responsible for sending SCSI commands to the peer node on behalf of a logical unit in the Standby asymmetric logical unit access (ALUA) state. \fBstmfInitProxyDoor()\fR should be called once a peer-to-peer communication channel between the two participating ALUA nodes has been established by the caller.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdoor_call\fR(3C) from the STMF proxy service to the door server will fill in the \fBdoor_arg_t\fR structure as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
door_arg_t arg;
uint32_t result;

arg.data_ptr = buf;
arg.data_size = size;
arg.desc_ptr = NULL;
arg.desc_num = 0;
arg.rbuf = (char *)&result
arg.rsize = sizeof (result);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The tuple <\fIdata_ptr\fR, \fIdata_size\fR> is expected to arrive at the peer node STMF proxy service via \fBstmfPostProxyMsg()\fR.
.sp
.LP
The door server is expected to complete the door call with these arguments to \fBdoor_return\fR(3C):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uinit32_t result;

(void) door_return((char *)&result, sizeof(result), NULL, 0);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where result is of type \fBuint32_t\fR and set to 0 on success, non-zero on failure.
.sp
.LP
Non-zero values are logged as errors without further action. No file descriptors will be exchanged by the door call or return.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_DOOR_INSTALLED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
A previous door has already been established.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdoor_call\fR(3C), \fBdoor_return\fR(3C), \fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBstmfDestroyProxyDoor\fR(3STMF), \fBstmfPostProxyMsg\fR(3STMF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
