'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfSetAluaState 3STMF "29 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfSetAluaState \- set the Asymmetric Logical Unit Access State (ALUA) mode for STMF
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfSetAluaState\fR(\fBboolean_t\fR \fIalua_enabled\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fInode\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIalua_enabled\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
\fBB_TRUE\fR when enabling ALUA mode; \fBB_FALSE\fR when disabling ALUA mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fInode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Must be the value 0 or 1.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfSetAluaState()\fR function sets the Asymmetric Logical Unit Access State (ALUA) mode for STMF. When \fIalua_enabled\fR is set to \fBB_FALSE\fR, \fInode\fR is ignored; otherwise, \fInode\fR must be set to 0 or 1. The \fInode\fR setting must be different for each node in a paired configuration. This function should be called only after the STMF proxy door service has been initialized (see \fBstmfInitProxyDoor\fR(3STMF)).  When the ALUA state is enabled, all STMF logical units will be registered on the peer node as standby logical units. The standby logical units can then be exported to any SCSI initiator using the existing mechanisms in STMF, \fBstmfAddViewEntry\fR(3STMF) or the add-view subcommand of \fBstmfadm\fR(1M). If ALUA mode is already enabled, it is valid to call this interface again with enabled set to \fBB_TRUE\fR. This action would result in a re-initialization of the ALUA mode and can be used during recovery of a failed peer node.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
Either \fIalua_enabled\fR or \fInode\fR was incorrectly set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBstmfadm\fR(1M), \fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBstmfAddViewEntry\fR(3STMF), \fBstmfInitProxyDoor\fR(3STMF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
