'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfOfflineLogicalUnit 3STMF "9 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfOfflineLogicalUnit \- take offline a logical unit that is currently in the online state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfOfflineLogicalUnit\fR(\fBstmfGuid *\fR\fIlogicalUnit\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIlogicalUnit\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
The identifier of the logical unit to offline.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfOfflineLogicalUnit()\fR function takes offline a logical unit that is currently in the online state. Once in the offline state, the logical unit will no longer be capable of servicing requests in the system.
.sp
.LP
This API call can be used to take offline a logical unit for servicing. Once the logical unit is offline, an initiator port that attempts to issue any SCSI commands to the offlined logical unit will receive a check condition. For purposes of the REPORT LUNS command, the logical unit will no longer appear in the logical unit inventory for any initiator ports to which it is currently mapped by one or more view entries.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_BUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
The device is currently busy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
