'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH stmfSetStmfProp 3STMF "7 Jul 2010" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfSetStmfProp \- set default stmf properties for luns and targets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

int stmfSetStmfProp(uint8_t \fIpropType\fR, char *\fIpropVal\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpropType\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
a property type value. See DESCRIPTION for valid values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpropVal\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
a property value
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function sets the default properties for the specified property type. All  property values are expressed in human-readable form. The \fIpropType\fR argument can be one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_DEFAULT_LU_STATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the default state for luns. The new setting will only take effect after a service enable/restart on the stmf service. Valid \fIpropVal\fR values are "online" or "offline".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_DEFAULT_TARGET_PORT_STATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the default state for target ports The new setting will only take effect after a service enable/restart on the stmf service. Valid \fIpropVal\fR values are "online" or "offline".
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
The \fIpropType\fR argument is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBstmfGetStmfProp\fR(3STMF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
