'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfLuStandby 3STMF "29 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfLuStandby \- set the access state of a logical unit to standby mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfSetAluaState\fR(\fBstmfGuid *\fR\fIluGuid\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIluGuid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
a pointer to an \fBstmfGuid\fR structure containing the \fBguid\fR of the logical unit to set to standby
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfLuStandby()\fR function sets the access state of a logical unit to standby mode. When successfully set, a standby logical unit switches its asymmetric logical unit access state to a one of "Transition to Standby" (see \fBstmfGetLuProp\fR(3STMF). Once moved to this state, the backing store for the logical unit will be released by the logical unit provider (\fBsbd\fR for disk devices). To move a logical unit out of "Standby" or the "Transition to Standby" state, \fBstmfImportLu\fR(3STMF) or the \fBimport-lu\fR subcommand of \fBstmfadm\fR(1M) must be executed on the logical unit. On a successful logical unit import, the access state of the logical unit will move to "Active" in addition to sending a message to its peer that will complete the peer's transition to "Standby". The current access state for the logical unit can be retrieved using \fBstmfGetLuProp()\fR where the property type is \fBSTMF_LU_PROP_ACCESS_STATE\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
The \fBguid\fR does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBstmfadm\fR(1M), \fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBstmfGetLuProp\fR(3STMF), \fBstmfImportLu\fR(3STMF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
