'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfGetPersistMethod 3STMF "8 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfGetPersistMethod \- get the current persistence method for stmf
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lstmf [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfGetPersistMethod\fR(\fBuint8_t *\fR\fIpersistType\fR, \fBboolean_t\fR \fIserviceState\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpersistType\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
On success, contains the current persistence setting based on \fIserviceState\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIserviceState\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
When set to \fBB_TRUE\fR, \fIpersistType\fR will contain the persist method currently set for the service. When set to \fBB_FALSE\fR, \fIpersistType\fR will contain the persist method for the current library open.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfGetPersistMethod()\fR function retrieves the current persistent method setting for the service or for a given library open. When set to \fBB_TRUE\fR, retrieves the setting from the service.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_PERSIST_TYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
Unable to retrieve persist type from service.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
