'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfGetLuResource 3STMF "8 May 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfGetLuResource \- get a logical unit resource for a currently registered logical unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lstmf [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfGetLuResource\fR(\fBstmfGuid *\fR\fIluGuid\fR, \fBluResource *\fR\fIhdl\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIluGuid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The guid of logical unit to retrieve.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIhdl\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The logical unit resource to create.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfGetLuResource()\fR function retrieves a logical unit resource \fIhdl\fR for a given logical unit. The \fIluGuid\fR argument must represent a currently registered stmf logical unit. This retrieved resource is a set of device-specific properties for a logical unit device. This allocates an \fBluResource\fR \fIhdl\fR of device type matching \fIluGuid\fR.  The \fBstmfFreeLuResource\fR(3STMF) function should be used when \fIhdl\fR is no longer needed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
The guid does not exist.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBstmfFreeLuResource\fR(3STMF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
