'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfRemoveFromHostGroup 3STMF "9 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfRemoveFromHostGroup \- remove an initiator port from an host group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfRemoveFromHostGroup\fR(\fBstmfGroupName *\fR\fIhostGroupName\fR
     \fBstmfDevid *\fR\fIinitiatorPortName\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIhostGroupName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
The name of the host group from which the specified \fIhostGroupName\fR is being removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIinitiatorPortName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
The device identifier of the initiator port to remove from the specified host group.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfRemoveFromHostGroup()\fR function removes an initiator port from an host group.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_GROUP_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified \fIhostGroupName\fR was not found in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_MEMBER_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified \fIinitiatorPortName\fR was not found in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
