'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfGetTargetGroupMembers 3STMF "9 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfGetTargetGroupMembers \- retrieve the properties of the specified target port group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfGetTargetGroupMembers\fR(\fBstmfGroupName *\fR\fItargetGroupName\fR,
     \fBstmfGroupProperties **\fR\fIgroupProperties\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fItargetGroupName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
The name of the target port group whose member list is being retrieved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIgroupProperties\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
A pointer to a pointer to an \fBstmfGroupProperties\fR structure. On successful return, this will contain the properties for the specified \fItargetGroupName\fR.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfGetTargetGroupMembers()\fR function retrieves the properties of the specified target port group. The caller should call \fBstmfFreeMemory\fR(3STMF) when this list is no longer needed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
The specified \fItargetGroupName\fR was not found in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBstmfFreeMemory\fR(3STMF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
