'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfOfflineTarget 3STMF "9 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfOfflineTarget \- take offline a target port that is currently in the online state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfOfflineTarget\fR(\fBstmfDevid *\fR\fItarget\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fItarget\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The identifier of the target port to offline.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfOfflineTarget()\fR function takes offline a target port that is currently in the online state. Once in the offline state, the target port will no longer be capable of servicing requests in the system.
.sp
.LP
This API call can be used to take offline a target port device for servicing. Once the target port is offline, it will no longer be available to any entities outside of the SCSI Target Mode Framework. Any initiator ports that currently have sessions established by the offlined target port will be logged out.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_BUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
The device is currently busy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
