'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfDevidFromIscsiName 3STMF "9 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfDevidFromIscsiName \- convert an iSCSI name to a stmfDevid structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfDevidFromIscsiName\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fIiscsiName\fR, \fBstmfDevid *\fR\fIdevid\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIiscsiName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
A character string of UTF-8 encoded Unicode characters representing the iSCSI name terminated with the Unicode nul character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdevid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
A pointer to a \fBstmfDevid\fR structure allocated by the caller. On successful return, this will contain the converted device identifier. On error, the value of this parameter is undefined.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfDevidFromIscsiName()\fR function converts an iSCSI name to a \fBstmfDevid\fR structure. It returns the \fIdevid\fR as a SCSI name string identifier.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARGUMENT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The value of \fIiscsiName\fR was not valid iSCSI name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
