'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfDevidFromWwn 3STMF "9 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfDevidFromWwn \- convert a WWN to a stmfDevid structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfDevidFromWWN\fR(\fBuchar_t\fR \fIwwn\fR[8], \fBstmfDevid *\fR\fIdevid\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIwwn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
The 8-byte WWN identifier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdevid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
A pointer to a \fBstmfDevid\fR structure allocated by the caller. On successful return, this will contain the converted device identifier. On error, the value of this parameter is undefined.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The stmfDevidFromWwn function convert a WWN to a stmfDevid structure. It returns the \fIdevid\fR as a SCSI name string.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARGUMENT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The value of \fIwwn\fR was not valid WWN identifier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
