'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfAddToHostGroup 3STMF "9 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfAddToHostGroup \- add an initiator port to an existing host group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfAddToHostGroup\fR(\fBstmfGroupName *\fR\fIhostGroupName\fR,
     \fBstmfDevid\fR \fIinitiatorName\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIhostGroupName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
The name of the host group to which the specified initiatorName is added.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIinitiatorName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
The device identifier of the initiator port to add to the specified host group.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfAddToHostGroup()\fR function adds an initiator port to an existing host group.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_EXISTS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt  
The specified \fIinitiatorName\fR already exists in this \fIhostGroupName\fR or in another host group in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_GROUP_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt  
The specified \fIhostGroupName\fR was not found in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
