'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH stmfGetStmfProp 3STMF "7 Jul 2010" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfGetStmfProp \- retrieve default stmf properties for luns and targets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

int stmfGetStmfProp(uint8_t \fIpropType\fR, char *\fIpropVal\fR, size_t *\fIpropLen\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpropType\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
a property type value. See DESCRIPTION for valid values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpropVal\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
a property value
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpropLen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
the length of the specified property value. If \fIpropLen\fR was of an insufficient size to the hold the returned property value, \fIpropLen\fR will contain the required size of the buffer and \fBSTMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG\fR will be returned.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function gets the default properties for the specified property type. All  property values are expressed in human-readable form. The \fIpropType\fR argument can be one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_DEFAULT_LU_STATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Retrieve the current default state for luns. The default value is "online".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_DEFAULT_TARGET_PORT_STATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Retrieve the current default state for target ports. the default value is "online".
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
Either the \fIpropType\fR or \fIpropVal\fR argument is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
The specified \fIpropType\fR was not found in the system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBstmfSetStmfProp\fR(3STMF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
