'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfGetTargetProperties 3STMF "9 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfGetTargetProperties \- retrieve the properties of the specified target port
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfGetTargetProperties\fR(\fBstmfDevid *\fR\fItarget\fR,
     \fBstmfTargetProperties *\fR\fItargetProperties\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fItarget\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The identifier of the target port whose properties are being retrieved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fItargetProperties\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
A pointer to an \fBstmfTargetProperties\fR structure allocated by the caller. On successful return, the structure will contain the properties for the specified.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfGetTargetProperties()\fR function retrieves the properties of the specified target port.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
The specified target was not found in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
