'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH stmfCheckTargetGroupInUse 3STMF "16 Sep 2010" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfCheckTargetGroupInUse \- check if a particular target group is in use
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

int stmfCheckTargetGroupInUse(stmfGroupName *\fIgroupName\fR, boolean_t *\fIinUse\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIgroupName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
The name of the target group being checked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIinUse\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
\fBB_TRUE\fR if the group is in use. \fBB_FALSE\fR if the group is not in use.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfCheckTargetGroupInUse()\fR function checks whether a target group is in use. A target group is considered to be in use when there are one or more view entries using the target group.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
The \fIgroupName\fR argument was unrecognized.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
The specified \fIgroupName\fR was not found in the system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
