'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfImportLu 3STMF "29 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfImportLu \- import a logical unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfImportLu\fR(\fBuint16_t\fR \fIdType\fR, \fBchar *\fR\fIfname\fR, \fBstmfGuid *\fR\fIluGuid\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdtype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
the device type of the logical unit being imported. Only \fBSTMF_DISK\fR is currently supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
the filename of the logical unit being imported
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIluGuid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
pointer to a \fBstmfGuid\fR allocated by the caller. On success, this contains the \fBguid\fR of the imported logical unit. If \fIluGuid\fR is \fINULL\fR, this parameter is ignored.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfImportLu()\fR function imports a previously created logical unit. The \fIfname\fR argument must be set to the filename where the metadata for the logical unit is stored. See \fBstmfCreateLu\fR(3STMF).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
The \fIdType\fR or \fIfname\fR argument was invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_META_FILE_NAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
The specified meta file could not be accessed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_DATA_FILE_NAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
The data file could not be accessed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBstmfCreateLu\fR(3STMF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
