'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfAddToTargetGroup 3STMF "9 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfAddToTargetGroup \- add a target to an existing target group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfAddToTargetGroup\fR(\fBstmfGroupName *\fR\fItargetGroupName\fR,
     \fBstmfDevid\fR \fItargetName\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fItargetGroupName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
The name of the target port group to which the specified \fItargetName\fR is added.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fItargetName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
The device identifier of the target port to add to the specified target group.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfAddToTargetGroup()\fR function adds a target to an existing target group.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_EXISTS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt  
The specified \fItargetName\fR already exists in this \fItagettGroupName\fR or in another target group in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_GROUP_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt  
The specified \fItargetGroupName\fR was not found in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
