'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH stmfValidateView 3STMF "1 Oct 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfValidateView \- remove a target port from an target port group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fBlstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfValidateView\fR(\fBstmfViewEntry *\fR\fIview\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIview\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
The view entry to validate or get the logical number.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfValidateView()\fR function validates the logical unit number. This is done by setting \fIview\fR->\fBluNbrValid\fR to \fBB_TRUE\fR and setting \fIview\fR->\fBluNbr\fR to the logical unit number. A valid logical unit number is in the range of 0-16383.
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfValidateView()\fR function finds the next available logical unit numbere by setting \fIview\fR->\fBluNbrValid\fR to \fBB_FALSE\fR. On success, the available logical unit number is returned in \fIview\fR->\fBluNbr\fR. A logical unit number is considered to be available if it is not currently consumed by an existing view entry where the target group and host group matches the view entry passed into this function. Until the logical unit number is no longer available, any calls to this function will get the same logical unit number in \fIview\fR->\fBluNbr\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_LUN_IN_USE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
The specified logical unit number is already in use for this logical unit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBstmfAddViewEntry\fR(3STMF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
