'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH csx_DeregisterClient 9F "19 Jul 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
csx_DeregisterClient \- remove client from Card Services list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h> 



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_DeregisterClient\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris \fBDDI \fRSpecific (Solaris \fBDDI) \fR
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIch\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Client handle returned from \fBcsx_RegisterClient\fR(9F). 
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function removes a client from the list of registered clients maintained by Card Services. The Client Handle returned by \fBcsx_RegisterClient\fR(9F) is passed in the \fBclient_handle_t\fR argument.
.sp
.LP
The client must have returned all requested resources before this function is called. If any resources have not been released, \fBCS_IN_USE\fR is returned.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCS_SUCCESS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCS_BAD_HANDLE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
Client handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCS_IN_USE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
Resources not released by this client.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
No \fBPCMCIA \fRhardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsx_RegisterClient\fR(9F) 
.sp
.LP
\fIPC Card 95 Standard, PCMCIA/JEIDA\fR 
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
Clients should be prepared to receive callbacks until Card Services returns from this request successfully.
