'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH csx_ConvertSpeed 9F "19 Jul 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
csx_ConvertSpeed \- convert device speeds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h> 



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_ConvertSpeed\fR(\fBconvert_speed_t *\fR\fIcs\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris \fBDDI \fRSpecific (Solaris \fBDDI) \fR
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcs\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Pointer to a \fBconvert_speed_t\fR structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function is a Solaris-specific extension that provides a method for clients to convert from one type of device speed representation to another, that is, from \fIdevspeed\fR format to \fInS\fR and vice versa.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.LP
The structure members of \fBconvert_speed_t\fR are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint32_t     Attributes;
uint32_t     nS;
uint32_t     devspeed;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The fields are defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAttributes\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
This is a bit-mapped field that identifies the type of speed conversion to be performed. The field is defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCONVERT_NS_TO_DEVSPEED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
Converts \fInS\fR to \fIdevspeed\fR format
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCONVERT_DEVSPEED_TO_NS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
Converts \fIdevspeed\fR format to \fInS\fR
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
If \fBCONVERT_NS_TO_DEVSPEED\fR is set, the value in the \fBnS\fR field is converted to a \fIdevspeed\fR format and returned in the \fBdevspeed\fR field.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdevspeed\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
If \fBCONVERT_DEVSPEED_TO_NS\fR is set, the value in the \fBdevspeed\fR field is converted to an \fInS\fR value and returned in the \fBnS\fR field.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCS_SUCCESS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCS_BAD_SPEED\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
Invalid \fInS\fR or \fIdevspeed\fR. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCS_BAD_ATTRIBUTE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
Bad \fBAttributes\fR value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
No \fBPCMCIA \fRhardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsx_ModifyWindow\fR(9F), \fBcsx_RequestWindow\fR(9F) 
.sp
.LP
\fIPC Card 95 Standard, PCMCIA/JEIDA\fR 
