'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH csx_Error2Text 9F "19 Jul 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
csx_Error2Text \- convert error return codes to text strings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h> 



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_Error2Text\fR(\fBerror2text_t *\fR\fIer\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris \fBDDI \fRSpecific (Solaris \fBDDI) \fR
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIer\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Pointer to an \fBerror2text_t\fR structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function is a Solaris-specific extension that provides a method for clients to convert Card Services error return codes to text strings.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.LP
The structure members of \fBerror2text_t\fR are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint32_t     item;                             /*the error code*/
char         test[CS_ERROR_MAX_BUFSIZE};       /*the error code*/
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
A pointer to the text for the Card Services error return code in the \fBitem\fR field is returned in the \fBtext\fR field if the error return code is found. The client is not responsible for allocating a buffer to hold the text. If the Card Services error return code specified in the item field is not found, the \fBtext\fR field will be set to a string of the form:
.sp
.LP
"{\fIunknown Card Services return code\fR}"
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCS_SUCCESS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
No \fBPCMCIA \fRhardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fR: Using the csxError2Text function
.sp
.in +2
.nf
if ((ret = csx_RegisterClient(&client_handle, &
	   client_reg)) != CS_SUCCESS)
{
   error2text_t error2text;
   error2text.item = ret;
   csx_Error2Text(&error2text);
   cmn_err(CE_CONT, "RegisterClient failed %s (0x%x)", 
	   error2text.text, ret);
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsx_Event2Text\fR(9F) 
.sp
.LP
\fIPC Card 95 Standard, PCMCIA/JEIDA\fR 
