'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH ddi_no_info 9F "9 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ddi_no_info \- stub for getinfo(9E)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBddi_no_info\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fR\fIdip\fR, \fBddi_info_cmd_t\fR \fIinfocmd\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIarg\fR, 
    \fBvoid **\fR\fIresult\fR
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBdev_info_t *\fIdip\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
Pointer to \fBdev_info\fR structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBddi_info_cmd_t \fIinfocmd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
Command argument. Valid command values are: \fBDDI_INFO_DEVT2DEVINFO\fR and \fBDDI_INFO_DEVT2INSTANCE\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvoid *\fIarg\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
Command-specific argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBvoid **\fIresult\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
Pointer to where the requested information is stored.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_no_info()\fR function always returns \fBDDI_FAILURE\fR. It is provided as a convenience routine for drivers not providing a \fBcb_ops\fR(9S) or for network drivers only providing DLPI-2 services. Such drivers can use \fBddi_no_info()\fR in the \fBdevo_getinfo\fR entry point (see \fBgetinfo\fR(9E)) of the \fBdev_ops\fR(9S) structure.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_no_info()\fR function always returns \fBDDI_FAILURE\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgetinfo\fR(9E), \fBqassociate\fR(9F), \fBcb_ops\fR(9S), \fBdev_ops\fR(9S)
