'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH drv_priv 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
drv_priv \- determine driver privilege
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/cred.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBdrv_priv\fR(\fBcred_t *\fR\fIcr\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Pointer to the user credential structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdrv_priv()\fR function provides a general interface to the system privilege policy. It determines whether the credentials supplied by the user credential structure pointed to by \fIcr\fR identify a process that has the \fB{PRIV_SYS_DEVICES}\fR privilege asserted in its effective set. This function should be used only when file access modes, special minor device numbers, and the device policy (see \fBprivileges\fR(5), \fBadd_drv\fR(1M)) are insufficient to provide protection for the requested driver function. It is intended to replace all calls to \fBsuser()\fR and any explicit checks for effective user ID = 0 in driver code.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
This routine returns \fB0\fR if it succeeds, \fBEPERM\fR if it fails.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The \fBdrv_priv()\fR function can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBadd_drv\fR(1M), \fBupdate_drv\fR(1M), \fBprivileges\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
