'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH hat_getkpfnum 9F "13 June 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
hat_getkpfnum \- get page frame number for kernel address
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>

\fBpfn_t\fR \fBhat_getkpfnum\fR(\fBcaddr_t\fR \fIaddr\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
This interface is obsolete. A driver \fBdevmap\fR(9E) entry point should be provided instead.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIaddr\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
The kernel virtual address for which the page frame number is to be returned.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBhat_getkpfnum()\fR returns the page frame number corresponding to the kernel virtual address, \fIaddr\fR. 
.sp
.LP
\fIaddr\fR must be a kernel virtual address which maps to device memory. \fBddi_map_regs\fR(9F) can be used to obtain this address. For example, \fBddi_map_regs\fR(9F) can be called in the driver's \fBattach\fR(9E) routine. The resulting kernel virtual address can be saved by the driver (see \fBddi_soft_state\fR(9F)) and used in \fBmmap\fR(9E). The corresponding \fBddi_unmap_regs\fR(9F) call can be made in the driver's \fBdetach\fR(9E) routine. Refer to \fBmmap\fR(9E) for more information.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The page frame number corresponding to the valid, device-mapped virtual address \fIaddr\fR. Otherwise the return value is undefined.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
\fBhat_getkpfnum()\fR can be called only from user or kernel context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes: 
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattach\fR(9E), \fBdetach\fR(9E), \fBdevmap\fR(9E), \fBmmap\fR(9E), \fBddi_map_regs\fR(9F), \fBddi_soft_state\fR(9F), \fBddi_unmap_regs\fR(9F) 
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR 
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
For some devices, mapping device memory in the driver's \fBattach\fR(9E) routine and unmapping device memory in the driver's \fBdetach\fR(9E) routine is a sizeable drain on system resources. This is especially true for devices with a large amount of physical address space. Refer to \fBmmap\fR(9E) for alternative methods.
