'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.TH ldi_ev_remove_callbacks 9F "21 Aug 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
ldi_ev_remove_callbacks \- remove all callbacks for a given callback ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/sunldi.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBldi_ev_remove_callbacks\fR(\fIldi_ev_callback_id_t id\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIldi_ev_callback_id_t id\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An opaque data structure returned on successful calls to \fBldi_ev_register_callbacks\fR(9F).
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBldi_ev_remove_callback()\fR function unregisters any callbacks that were registered via \fBldi_ev_register_callbacks\fR(9F). Once this function returns, the callback \fBID\fR is no longer valid.
.sp
.LP
The finalize and notify callbacks exist independently of the \fBLDI\fR handle and are not automatically removed when the \fBLDI\fR handle is closed. The layered driver removes these callbacks via \fBldi_ev_remove_callbacks()\fR() when the callbacks are no longer needed. The \fBLDI\fR framework may panic the system if the entity registering the callback (a \fBdev_t\fR, \fBdip\fR or \fBmodule\fR) no longer exists on the system and the callbacks have not been unregistered.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
None.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function can be called from user and kernel contexts only.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBldi_ev_get_cookie\fR(9F), \fBldi_ev_register_callbacks\fR(9F)
