'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH net_instance_register 9F "1 May 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
net_instance_register \- register a set of instances to occur with IP instance events
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/neti.h>

\fBint\fR \fBnet_instance_register\fR(\fBnet_instance_t\fR *\fIinstances\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIinstances\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
must be a pointer returned by \fBnet_instance_alloc\fR(9F).
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBnet_instance_register()\fR function attempts to record the set of functions passed by instances that are to be called when an event related to \fBIP\fR instance maintenance occurs.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If the \fBnet_instance_register()\fR function succeeds, \fBDDI_SUCCESS\fR is returned. Otherwise, \fBDDI_FAILURE\fR is returned to indicate failure due to the name in the instance already being present.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The \fBnet_instance_register()\fR function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBnet_instance_alloc\fR(9F), \fBnet_instance_unregister\fR(9F), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBnet_instance_t\fR(9S)
