'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.TH uiomove 9F "16 Jan 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
uiomove \- copy kernel data using uio structure 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/uio.h>



\fBint\fR \fBuiomove\fR(\fBcaddr_t\fR \fIaddress\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fInbytes\fR, \fBenum uio_rw\fR \fIrwflag\fR, 
     \fBuio_t *\fR\fIuio_p\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIaddress\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Source/destination kernel address of the copy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fInbytes\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Number of bytes to copy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIrwflag\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Flag indicating read or write operation. Possible values are \fBUIO_READ\fR and \fBUIO_WRITE\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIuio_p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Pointer to the \fBuio\fR structure for the copy.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBuiomove()\fR function copies \fInbytes\fR of data to or from the space defined by the \fBuio\fR structure (described in \fBuio\fR(9S)) and the driver.
.sp
.LP
The \fBuio_segflg\fR member of the \fBuio\fR(9S) structure determines the type of space to or from which the transfer is being made. If it is set to \fBUIO_SYSSPACE\fR, the data transfer is between addresses in the kernel. If it is set to \fBUIO_USERSPACE\fR, the transfer is between a user program and kernel space.
.sp
.LP
\fIrwflag\fR indicates the direction of the transfer. If \fBUIO_READ\fR is set, the data will be transferred from \fIaddress\fR to the buffer(s) described by \fIuio_p\fR. If \fBUIO_WRITE\fR is set, the data will be transferred from the buffer(s) described by \fIuio_p\fR to \fIaddress\fR.
.sp
.LP
In addition to moving the data, \fBuiomove()\fR adds the number of bytes moved to the \fBiov_base\fR member of the \fBiovec\fR(9S) structure, decreases the \fBiov_len\fR member, increases the \fBuio_offset\fR member of the \fBuio\fR(9S) structure, and decreases the \fBuio_resid\fR member.
.sp
.LP
This function automatically handles page faults. \fInbytes\fR does not have to be word-aligned.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBuiomove()\fR function returns \fB0\fR upon success or \fBEFAULT\fR on failure.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
User context only, if \fBuio_segflg\fR is set to \fBUIO_USERSPACE\fR. User, interrupt, or kernel context, if \fBuio_segflg\fR is set to \fBUIO_SYSSPACE\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBureadc\fR(9F), \fBuwritec\fR(9F), \fBiovec\fR(9S), \fBuio\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
If \fBuio_segflg\fR is set to \fBUIO_SYSSPACE\fR and \fIaddress\fR is selected from user space, the system may panic.
