'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.TH usb_pipe_get_max_bulk_transfer_size 9F "5 Jan 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
usb_pipe_get_max_bulk_transfer_size \- Get maximum bulk transfer size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/usb/usba.h>

\fBint\fR \fBusb_pipe_get_max_bulk_transfer_size\fR(\fBdev_info_t\fR \fIdip\fR, \fBsize_t *\fR\fIsize\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdip\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Pointer to the device's dev_info structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsize\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Returns the bulk transfer size.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBusb_pipe_get_max_bulk_transfer_size()\fR function returns the maximum data transfer size in bytes that the host controller driver can support per bulk request. This information can be used to limit or break down larger requests to manageable sizes.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBUSB_SUCCESS\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
Size is returned in size argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBUSB_INVALID_ARGS\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
\fIdip\fR and/or \fIsize\fR argument is \fBNULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBUSB_FAILURE\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
Size could not be returned. Zero is returned in \fIsize\fR arg.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
May be called from user, kernel or interrupt context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.in +2
.nf
    int xxx_attach(dev_info_t *dip, int command)
    {
           ...
           usb_pipe_get_max_bulk_transfer_size(dip, &state>max_xfer_size);
           ...
    }

    void xxx_minphys(struct buf bp)
    {
           ...
           if (bp->b_bcount > state->max_xfer_size) {
                   bp->b_bcount = state->max_xfer_size;
           }
           ...
    }

            
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes: 
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitecturePCI-based systems
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
Availabilitysystem/io/usb
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBusb_pipe_bulk_xfer\fR(9F), \fBusb_alloc_request\fR(9F), \fBusb_bulk_request\fR(9S) 
