'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH hextob 3TSOL "20 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Trusted Extensions Library Functions"
.SH NAME
hextob, htobsl, htobclear \- convert hexadecimal string to binary label
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag\fR...] \fIfile\fR... \fB-ltsol\fR [\fIlibrary\fR...]
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <tsol/label.h>

\fBint htobsl\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIs\fR, \fBm_label_t *\fR\fIlabel\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBhtobclear\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIs\fR, \fBm_label_t *\fR\fIclearance\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions convert hexadecimal string representations of internal label values into binary labels.
.sp
.LP
The \fBhtobsl()\fR function converts into a binary sensitivity label, a hexadecimal string of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
0x\fIsensitivity_label_hexadecimal_value\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The \fBhtobclear()\fR function converts into a binary clearance, a hexadecimal string of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
0x\fIclearance_hexadecimal_value\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
These functions return non-zero if the conversion was successful, otherwise zero is returned.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.sp
.LP
These functions are obsolete and retained for ease of porting. They might be removed in a future Solaris Trusted Extensions release. Use the \fBstr_to_label\fR(3TSOL) function instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibtsol\fR(3LIB), \fBstr_to_label\fR(3TSOL), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBlabels\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
