'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH m_label 3TSOL "23 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Trusted Extensions Library Functions"
.SH NAME
m_label, m_label_alloc, m_label_dup, m_label_free \- m_label functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag\fR...] \fIfile\fR... \fB-ltsol\fR [\fIlibrary\fR...]
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <tsol/label.h>

\fBm_label_t *\fR\fBm_label_alloc\fR(\fBconst m_label_type_t\fR \fIlabel_type\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBm_label_dup\fR(\fBm_label_t **\fR\fIdst\fR, \fBconst m_label_t *\fR\fIsrc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBm_label_free\fR(\fBm_label_t *\fR\fIlabel\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBm_label_alloc()\fR function allocates resources for a new label. The \fIlabel_type\fR argument defines the type for a newly allocated label. The label type can be:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMAC_LABEL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
A Mandatory Access Control (MAC) label.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBUSER_CLEAR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
A user clearance.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBm_label_dup()\fR function allocates resources for a new \fIdst\fR label. The function returns a pointer to the allocated label, which is an exact copy of the \fIsrc\fR label. The caller is responsible for freeing the allocated resources by calling \fBm_label_free()\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBm_label_free()\fR function frees resources that are associated with the previously allocated label.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the \fBm_label_alloc()\fR function returns a pointer to the newly allocated label. Otherwise, \fBm_label_alloc()\fR returns \fINULL\fR and \fIerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the \fBm_label_dup()\fR function returns 0. Otherwise, \fB-1\fR is returned and \fIerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBm_label_alloc()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Invalid parameter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The physical limits of the system are exceeded by size bytes of memory which cannot be allocated.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlabel_to_str\fR(3TSOL), \fBlibtsol\fR(3LIB), \fBstr_to_label\fR(3TSOL), \fBlabel_encodings\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBlabels\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
