'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH libdl 3LIB "24 Mar 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libdl \- dynamic linking library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-ldl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Historically, functions in \fBlibdl\fR provided for dynamic linking support. This functionality now resides in \fBlibc\fR(3LIB).
.sp
.LP
This library is maintained to provide backward compatibility for both runtime and compilation environments. The shared object is implemented as a filter on the runtime linker. See \fBld.so.1\fR(1). New application development need not specify \fB-ldl\fR.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object \fBlibdl.so.1\fR provides the following public interfaces. See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBdladdr\fR\fBdladdr1\fR
\fBdlclose\fR\fBdldump\fR
\fBdlerror\fR\fBdlinfo\fR
\fBdlmopen\fR\fBdlopen\fR
\fBdlsym\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/libdl.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/64/libdl.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/linker
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBld.so.1\fR(1), \fBpvs\fR(1), \fBIntro\fR(3), \fBlibc\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5) 
