'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH libkstat 3LIB "23 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libkstat \- kernel statistics library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lkstat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <\fBkstat.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library provide a general-purpose mechanism for providing kernel statistics to users.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object \fBlibkstat.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces defined below. See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBkstat_chain_update\fR\fBkstat_close\fR
\fBkstat_data_lookup\fR\fBkstat_lookup\fR
\fBkstat_open\fR\fBkstat_read\fR
\fBkstat_write\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/libkstat.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/64/libkstat.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The \fBkstat_open()\fR function is Safe. The remaining \fBkstat\fR functions are MT-Safe with the exception that only one thread may actively use a \fBkstat_ctl_t *\fR value at any time. Synchronization is left to the application.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpvs\fR(1), \fBIntro\fR(3), \fBkstat\fR(3KSTAT), \fBattributes\fR(5) 
