'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH libkvm 3LIB "23 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libkvm \- Kernel Virtual Memory access library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lkvm\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <\fBkvm.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library provide application access to kernel symbols, addresses and values. The individual functions are documented in Section 3KVM of the reference manual.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object \fBlibkvm.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces defined below. See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBkvm_close\fR\fBkvm_getcmd\fR
\fBkvm_getproc\fR\fBkvm_getu\fR
\fBkvm_kread\fR\fBkvm_kwrite\fR
\fBkvm_nextproc\fR\fBkvm_nlist\fR
\fBkvm_open\fR\fBkvm_read\fR
\fBkvm_setproc\fR\fBkvm_uread\fR
\fBkvm_uwrite\fR\fBkvm_write\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/libkvm.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/64/libkvm.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.sp
.LP
The \fBkvm_read()\fR and \fBkvm_write()\fR  functions are Obsolete. The remaining functions are Committed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpvs\fR(1), \fBIntro\fR(3), \fBattributes\fR(5) 
