'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH libpctx 3LIB "23 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libpctx \- process context library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lpctx\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ] 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library provide a simple means to access the underlying facilities of \fBproc\fR(4) to allow a controlling process to manipulate the state of a controlled process.
.sp
.LP
This library is primarily for use in conjunction with the \fBlibcpc\fR(3LIB) library.  Used together, these libraries allow developers to construct tools that can manipulate CPU performance counters in other processes. The \fBcputrack\fR(1) utility is an example of such a tool.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object \fBlibpctx.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces defined below. See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBpctx_capture\fR\fBpctx_create\fR
\fBpctx_release\fR\fBpctx_run\fR
\fBpctx_set_events\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/libpctx.so.1\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/64/libpctx.so.1\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitydiagnostic/cpu-counters
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcputrack\fR(1), \fBIntro\fR(3), \fBcpc\fR(3CPC), \fBlibcpc\fR(3LIB), \fBproc\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5) 
