'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH libsecdb 3LIB "23 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libsecdb \- security attributes database library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR...  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <\fBsecdb.h\fR>
#include <\fBuser_attr.h\fR>
#include <\fBprof_attr.h\fR>
#include <\fBexec_attr.h\fR>
#include <\fBauth_attr.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library provide routines for manipulation of security attribute databases.
.sp
.LP
Historically, functions in \fBlibsecdb\fR provided support for the security attributes database. This functionality now resides in \fBlibc\fR(3LIB).
.sp
.LP
This library is maintained to provide backward compatibility for both runtime and compilation environments. The shared object is implemented as a filter on \fBlibc.so.1\fR. New application development need not specify \fB-lsecdb\fR.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object \fBlibsecdb.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces defined below. See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBchkauthattr\fR\fBendauthattr\fR
\fBendexecattr\fR\fBendprofattr\fR
\fBenduserattr\fR\fBfgetuserattr\fR
\fBfree_authattr\fR\fBfree_execattr\fR
\fBfree_profattr\fR\fBfree_proflist\fR
\fBfree_userattr\fR\fBgetauthattr\fR
\fBgetauthnam\fR\fBgetexecattr\fR
\fBgetexecprof\fR\fBgetexecuser\fR
\fBgetprofattr\fR\fBgetproflist\fR
\fBgetprofnam\fR\fBgetuserattr\fR
\fBgetusernam\fR\fBgetuseruid\fR
\fBkva_match\fR\fBmatch_execattr\fR
\fBsetauthattr\fR\fBsetexecattr\fR
\fBsetprofattr\fR\fBsetuserattr\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/libsecdb.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
a filter on libc.so.1
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/64/libsecdb.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
a filter on 64/libc.so.1
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBIntro\fR(3), \fBlibc\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5) 
