'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH libumem 3LIB "23 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Interface Libraries"
.SH NAME
libumem \- object-caching memory allocation library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lumem\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <\fBumem.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Functions in this library provide fast, scalable object-caching memory allocation with multithreaded application support. In addition to the standard \fBmalloc\fR(3C) family of functions and the more flexible \fBumem_alloc\fR(3MALLOC) family, \fBlibumem\fR provides powerful object-caching services as described in \fBumem_cache_create\fR(3MALLOC).
.sp
.LP
The \fBlibumem\fR library also provides extensive debugging support, including  detection of memory leaks, buffer overruns, multiple frees, use of uninitialized data, use of freed data, and many other common programming errors. See \fBumem_debug\fR(3MALLOC).
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object \fBlibumem.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces defined below. See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBcalloc\fR\fBfree\fR
\fBmalloc\fR\fBmemalign\fR
\fBrealloc\fR\fBumem_alloc\fR
\fBumem_cache_alloc\fR\fBumem_cache_create\fR
\fBumem_cache_destroy\fR\fBumem_cache_free\fR
\fBumem_free\fR\fBumem_nofail_callback\fR
\fBumem_zalloc\fR\fBvalloc\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/libumem.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/64/libumem.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBIntro\fR(3), \fBmalloc\fR(3C), \fBumem_alloc\fR(3MALLOC), \fBumem_cache_create\fR(3MALLOC), \fBumem_debug\fR(3MALLOC), \fBattributes\fR(5) 
