'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH dhcp 5 "23 Jun 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
dhcp \- Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (\fBDHCP\fR) enables host systems in a \fBTCP/IP\fR network to be configured automatically for the network as they boot. \fBDHCP\fR uses a client/server mechanism: servers store configuration information for clients, and provide that information upon a client's request. The information can include the client's \fBIP\fR address and information about network services available to the client. 
.sp
.LP
This manual page provides a brief summary of the Oracle Solaris \fBDHCP\fR implementation.
.SS "Oracle Solaris DHCP Client"
.sp
.LP
The Oracle Solaris DHCP client is implemented as background daemon, \fBdhcpagent\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
For IPv4, this daemon is started automatically during bootup if there exists at least one \fBdhcp.\fR\fIinterface\fR file in \fB/etc\fR. Only interfaces with a corresponding \fB\fR\fB/etc/dhcp.\fR\fB\fIinterface\fR\fR file are automatically configured during boot. 
.sp
.LP
For IPv6, this daemon is started automatically when commanded by \fBin.ndpd\fR (based on IPv6 Routing Advertisement messages). No \fB/etc/dhcp\fR.\fIinterface\fR file is necessary, but such a file can be used to specify an interface as "primary," provided that IPv4 DHCP is also in use.
.sp
.LP
Network parameters needed for system configuration during bootup are extracted from the information received by the daemon through the use of the \fBdhcpinfo\fR(1) command. The daemon's default behavior can be altered by changing the tunables in the \fB/etc/default/dhcpagent\fR file. The daemon is controlled by the \fBifconfig\fR(1M) utility. Check the status of the daemon using the \fBnetstat\fR(1M) and \fBifconfig\fR(1M) commands. 
.SS "Oracle Solaris DHCP Server"
.sp
.LP
The Oracle Solaris \fBDHCP\fR server is implemented as a background daemon, \fBin.dhcpd\fR(1M). This daemon can deliver network configuration information to either \fBBOOTP\fR or \fBDHCP\fR clients. The Oracle Solaris \fBDHCP\fR service can be managed using the \fBdhcpmgr\fR(1M) \fBGUI\fR or the command line utilities \fBdhcpconfig\fR(1M), \fBdhtadm\fR(1M), and \fBpntadm\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
The Oracle Solaris DHCP server is obsolete. Use the ISC DHCP server instead. See \fBusr/share/man/man5/isc-dhcp.5\fR
.SS "DHCP Configuration Tables"
.sp
.LP
The Oracle Solaris \fBDHCP\fR server stores client configuration information in the following two types of tables: 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdhcptab\fR tables\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Contain macros and options (also known as symbols), used to construct a package of configuration information to send to each \fBDHCP\fR client. There exists only one \fBdhcptab\fR for the \fBDHCP\fR service. The \fBdhcptab\fR(4) can be viewed and modified using the \fBdhtadm\fR(1M) command or \fBdhcpmgr\fR(1M) graphical utility. See \fBdhcptab\fR(4) for more information about the syntax of \fBdhcptab\fR records. See \fBdhcp_inittab\fR(4) for more information about the \fBDHCP\fR options and symbols.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDHCP\fR network tables\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
\fBDHCP\fR network tables, which contain mappings of client \fBID\fRs to \fBIP\fR addresses and parameters associated with those addresses. Network tables are named with the \fBIP\fR address of the network, and can be created, viewed, and modified using the \fBpntadm\fR command or \fBdhcpmgr\fR graphical utility. See \fBdhcp_network\fR(4) for more information about network tables.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdhcpinfo\fR(1), \fBdhcpagent\fR(1M), \fBdhcpconfig\fR(1M), \fBdhcpmgr\fR(1M), \fBdhtadm\fR(1M), \fBifconfig\fR(1M), \fBin.dhcpd\fR(1M), \fBin.ndpd\fR(1M), \fBnetstat\fR(1M), \fBpntadm\fR(1M), \fBsyslog\fR(3C), \fBdhcp_network\fR(4), \fBdhcptab\fR(4), \fBdhcpsvc.conf\fR(4), \fBdhcp_inittab\fR(4), \fBndpd.conf\fR(4), \fBdhcp_modules\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fBusr/share/man/man5/isc-dhcp.5\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIOracle Solaris DHCP Service Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.sp
.LP
Alexander, S., and R. Droms. \fIRFC 2132, DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor Extensions\fR. Silicon Graphics, Inc. Bucknell University. March 1997.
.sp
.LP
Droms, R. \fIRFC 1534, Interoperation Between DHCP and BOOTP\fR. Bucknell University. October 1993.
.sp
.LP
Droms, R. \fIRFC 2131, Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol\fR. Bucknell University. March 1997.
.sp
.LP
Wimer, W. \fIRFC 1542, Clarifications and Extensions for the Bootstrap Protocol\fR. Carnegie Mellon University. October 1993.
.sp
.LP
Lemon, T. and B. Sommerfeld. \fIRFC 4361, Node-specific Client Identifiers for Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol Version Four (DHCPv4)\fR. Nominum and Sun Microsystems. February 2006.
.sp
.LP
Droms, R. \fIRFC 3315, Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6)\fR. Cisco Systems. July 2003.
