'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH pam_smbfs_login 5 "23 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Standards, Environments, and Macros"
.SH NAME
pam_smbfs_login \- PAM user credential authentication module for SMB/CIFS client login
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
pam_smb_cred.so.1
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpam_smbfs_login\fR module  implements \fBpam_sm_setcred\fR(3PAM) to provide functions that act equivalently to the \fBsmbadm\fR(1M) \fBadd-key\fR command.
.sp
.LP
This optional functionality is meant  to be used only in environments  that  do not run Active Directory or Kerberos, but which synchronize passwords between Solaris clients and their CIFS/SMB servers.
.sp
.LP
This module permits the login password to be stored as if the \fBsmbadm\fR(1M) \fBadd-key\fR command was used to store a password for \fBPAM_USER\fR in the user or system default  domain. 
.sp
.LP
To use this functionality,  add the following line to the \fB/etc/pam.conf\fR file:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
login  auth optional    pam_smbfs_login.so.1
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Authentication service modules must implement both \fBpam_sm_authenticate\fR(3PAM) and \fBpam_sm_setcred\fR(3PAM). In this module, \fBpam_sm_authenticate\fR(3PAM) always returns \fBPAM_IGNORE\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpam_sm_setcred\fR(3PAM) function accepts the following flags:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_REFRESH_CRED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Returns PAM_IGNORE.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_SILENT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suppresses messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_ESTABLISH_CRED\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBPAM_REINITIALIZE_CRED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Stores the authentication token for PAM_USER in the same manner as the \fBsmbadm\fR(1M) \fBadd-key\fR command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_DELETE_CRED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deletes the stored password for PAM_USER in the same manner as the \fBsmbadm\fR(1M) \fBremove-key\fR command.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following options can be passed to the \fBpam_smbfs_login\fR module:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdebug\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Produces \fBsyslog\fR(3C) debugging information at the \fBLOG_AUTH\fR or \fBLOG_DEBUG\fR level.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnowarn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suppresses warning messages.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion of \fBpam_sm_setcred\fR(3PAM), \fBPAM_SUCCESS\fR is  returned. The  following  error codes are returned upon error:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_USER_UNKNOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
User is unknown.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_AUTHTOK_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Password is bad.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_AUTH_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Domain is bad.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAM_SYSTEM_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
System error.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attribute:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.76i) |cw(2.74i) 
lw(2.76i) |lw(2.74i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsmbadm\fR(1M), \fBsyslog\fR(3C), \fBlibpam\fR(3LIB), \fBpam\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_setcred\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_sm\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_sm_authenticate\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_sm_chauthtok\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_sm_setcred\fR(3PAM), \fBpam.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmbfs\fR(7FS)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in \fBlibpam\fR(3LIB) are MT-Safe only  if each thread within the multi-threaded application uses its own PAM handle.
