'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH htonl 3XNET "10 Jun 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "X/Open Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
htonl, htons, ntohl, ntohs \- convert values between host and network byte order
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lxnet\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <arpa/inet.h>
 
\fBuint32_t\fR \fBhtonl\fR(\fBuint32_t\fR \fIhostlong\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuint16_t\fR \fBhtons\fR(\fBuint16_t\fR \fIhostshort\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuint32_t\fR \fBntohl\fR(\fBuint32_t\fR \fInetlong\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuint16_t\fR  \fBntohs\fR(\fBuint16_t\fR \fI netshort\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions convert 16-bit and 32-bit quantities between network byte order and host byte order.
.sp
.LP
The  \fBuint32_t\fR and  \fBuint16_t\fR types are made available by inclusion of \fB<inttypes.h>\fR\&. 
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
These functions are most often used in conjunction with Internet addresses and ports as returned by \fBgethostent\fR(3XNET) and \fBgetservent\fR(3XNET). 
.sp
.LP
On some architectures these functions are defined as macros that expand to the value of their argument.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBhtonl()\fR and \fBhtons()\fR functions return the argument value converted from host to network byte order.
.sp
.LP
The \fBntohl()\fR and \fBntohs()\fR functions return the argument value converted from network to host byte order.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBendhostent\fR(3XNET), \fBendservent\fR(3XNET), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
