'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved  Portions 
.\" Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH shutdown 3XNET "10 Jun 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "X/Open Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
shutdown \- shut down socket send and receive operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lxnet\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sys/socket.h> 

\fBint\fR \fBshutdown\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsocket\fR, \fBint\fR \fIhow\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBshutdown()\fR function disables subsequent \fBsend()\fR and \fBreceive()\fR operations on a socket, depending on the value of the \fIhow\fR argument.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIhow\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Specifies the type of shutdown.  The values are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSHUT_RD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Disables further receive operations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSHUT_WR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Disables further send operations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSHUT_RDWR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Disables further send and receive operations.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsocket\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Specifies the file descriptor of the socket.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBshutdown()\fR returns 0.  Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBshutdown()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The \fIsocket\fR argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The \fIhow\fR argument is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOTCONN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The socket is not connected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOTSOCK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The \fIsocket\fR argument does not refer to a socket.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBshutdown()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOBUFS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Insufficient resources were available in the system to perform the operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOSR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
There were insufficient STREAMS resources available for the operation to complete.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgetsockopt\fR(3XNET), \fBrecv\fR(3XNET), \fBrecvfrom\fR(3XNET), \fBrecvmsg\fR(3XNET), \fBselect\fR(3C), \fBsend\fR(3XNET), \fBsendto\fR(3XNET), \fBsetsockopt\fR(3XNET), \fBsocket\fR(3XNET), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
