'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.TH door_revoke 3C "22 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
door_revoke \- revoke access to a door descriptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR \fB-mt\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <door.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdoor_revoke\fR(\fBint\fR \fId\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdoor_revoke()\fR function revokes access to a door descriptor. Door descriptors are created with  \fBdoor_create\fR(3C). The \fBdoor_revoke()\fR function performs an implicit call to  \fBclose\fR(2), marking the door descriptor \fId\fR as invalid.
.sp
.LP
A door descriptor can be revoked only by the process that created it.  Door invocations that are in progress during a \fBdoor_revoke()\fR invocation are allowed to complete normally.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBdoor_revoke()\fR returns \fB0\fR. Otherwise, \fBdoor_revoke()\fR returns \(mi1 and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The  \fBdoor_revoke()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
An invalid door descriptor was passed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
The door descriptor was not created by this process (with \fBdoor_create\fR(3C)).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architectureall
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBclose\fR(2), \fBdoor_create\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
