'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" Portions of this manual page were derived from Linux documentation obtained from http://linux.die.net.
.TH fclose 3C "11 Oct 2010" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
fclose, fcloseall \- close a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>

\fBint\fR \fBfclose\fR(\fBFILE *\fR\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
int fcloseall(void);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBfclose()\fR function causes the stream pointed to by \fIstream\fR to be flushed and the associated file to be closed. Any unwritten buffered data for the stream is written to the file; any unread buffered data is discarded. The stream is disassociated from the file. If the associated buffer was automatically allocated, it is deallocated.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfclose()\fR function marks for update the \fBst_ctime\fR and \fBst_mtime\fR fields of the underlying file if the stream is writable and if buffered data has not yet been written to the file.  It will perform a \fBclose\fR(2) operation on the file descriptor that is associated with the stream pointed to by \fIstream\fR.
.sp
.LP
After the call to \fBfclose()\fR, any use of \fIstream\fR causes undefined behavior.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfclose()\fR function is performed automatically for all open files upon calling \fBexit\fR(2).
.sp
.LP
The \fBfcloseall()\fR function calls \fBfclose()\fR on all open streams.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, \fBEOF\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBfclose()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEAGAIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fBO_NONBLOCK\fR flag is set for the file descriptor underlying \fIstream\fR and the process would be delayed in the write operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The file descriptor underlying stream is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEFBIG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
An attempt was made to write a file that exceeds the maximum file size or the process's file size limit; or the file is a regular file and an attempt was made to write at or beyond the offset maximum associated with the corresponding stream.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINTR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fBfclose()\fR function was interrupted by a signal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The process is a member of a background process group attempting to write to its controlling terminal, \fBTOSTOP\fR is set, the process is neither ignoring nor blocking \fBSIGTTOU\fR and the process group of the process is orphaned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOSPC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
There was no free space remaining on the device containing the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEPIPE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
An attempt is made to write to a pipe or \fBFIFO\fR that is not open for reading by any process. A \fBSIGPIPE\fR signal will also be sent to the calling thread.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBfclose()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENXIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
A request was made of a non-existent device, or the request was beyond the limits of the device.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBclose\fR(2), \fBexit\fR(2), \fBgetrlimit\fR(2), \fBulimit\fR(2), \fBfopen\fR(3C), \fBstdio\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
