'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH getcpuid 3C "16 Apr 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getcpuid, gethomelgroup \- obtain information on scheduling decisions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/processor.h>

\fBprocessorid_t\fR \fBgetcpuid\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBushort_t\fR \fBgethomelgroup\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetcpuid()\fR function returns the processor ID on which the calling thread is currently executing.
.sp
.LP
The \fBgethomelgroup()\fR function returns the home locality group ID of the calling thread.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
See \fBDESCRIPTION\fR.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Both the current CPU and the home locality group can change at any time.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.sp
.LP
The \fBgetcpuid()\fR function is Committed. The \fBgethomelgroup()\fR function is Obsolete.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpsradm\fR(1M), \fBpsrinfo\fR(1M), \fBpsrset\fR(1M), \fBp_online\fR(2), \fBprocessor_bind\fR(2), \fBprocessor_info\fR(2), \fBpset_assign\fR(2), \fBpset_bind\fR(2), \fBpset_info\fR(2), \fBmeminfo\fR(2), \fBlgrp_home\fR(3LGRP), \fBsysconf\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBgethomelgroup()\fR function is obsolete and might be removed in a future release. It has been replaced by \fBlgrp_home\fR(3LGRP).
