'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH getpagesizes 3C "14 May 2001" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getpagesizes \- get system supported page sizes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/mman.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgetpagesizes\fR(\fBsize_t\fR \fIpagesize\fR[\|], \fBint\fR \fInelem\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetpagesizes()\fR function returns either the number of different page sizes supported by the system or the actual sizes themselves.  When called with \fInelem\fR as 0 and pagesize as \fINULL\fR, \fBgetpagesizes()\fR returns the number of supported page sizes. Otherwise, up to \fInelem\fR page sizes are retrieved and assigned to successive elements  of \fIpagesize\fR[\|].  The return value is the number of page sizes retrieved and set in \fIpagesize\fR[\|].
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the number of pagesizes supported or actually retrieved is returned. Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetpagesizes()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fInelem\fR argument is less than 0 or \fIpagesize\fR is \fINULL\fR but \fInelem\fR is non-zero.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetpagesizes()\fR function returns all the page sizes for which the hardware and system software provide support for the \fBmemcntl\fR(2) command \fBMC_HAT_ADVISE\fR. Not all processors support all page sizes or combinations of page sizes with equal efficiency. Applications programmers should take this into consideration when using \fBgetpagesizes()\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmemcntl\fR(2), \fBmmap\fR(2), \fBgetpagesize\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
