'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH getpagesize 3C "27 Jun 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
getpagesize \- get system page size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgetpagesize\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetpagesize()\fR function returns the number of bytes in a page. Page granularity is the granularity of many of the memory management calls.
.sp
.LP
The page size is a system page size and need not be the same as the underlying hardware page size.
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetpagesize()\fR function is equivalent to \fBsysconf(_SC_PAGE_SIZE)\fR and \fBsysconf(_SC_PAGESIZE)\fR. See \fBsysconf\fR(3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetpagesize()\fR function returns the current page size.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The value returned by \fBgetpagesize()\fR need not be the minimum value that \fBmalloc\fR(3C) can allocate.  Moreover, the application cannot assume that an object of this size can be allocated with \fBmalloc()\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpagesize\fR(1), \fBbrk\fR(2), \fBgetrlimit\fR(2), \fBmmap\fR(2), \fBmprotect\fR(2), \fBmunmap\fR(2), \fBmalloc\fR(3C), \fBmsync\fR(3C), \fBsysconf\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
