'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1994, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH grantpt 3C "14 Aug 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
grantpt \- grant access to the slave pseudo-terminal device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgrantpt\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgrantpt()\fR function changes the mode and ownership of the slave pseudo-terminal device associated with its master  pseudo-terminal counterpart. \fIfildes\fR is the file descriptor returned from a successful open of the master pseudo-terminal device. The user ID of the slave is set to the real UID of the calling process and the group ID is set to a reserved group. The permission mode of the slave pseudo-terminal is set to readable and writable by the owner and writable by the group.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBgrantpt()\fR returns \fB0\fR. Otherwise, it returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgrantpt()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fIfildes\fR argument is not a valid open file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fIfildes\fR argument is not associated with a master pseudo-terminal device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The corresponding slave pseudo-terminal device could not be accessed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBopen\fR(2), \fBptsname\fR(3C), \fBunlockpt\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
