'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH nl_langinfo 3C "24 Jul 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
nl_langinfo \- language information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <langinfo.h>

\fBchar *\fR\fBnl_langinfo\fR(\fBnl_item\fR \fIitem\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBnl_langinfo()\fR function returns a pointer to a null-terminated string containing information relevant to a particular language or cultural area defined in the programs locale. The manifest constant names and values of \fIitem\fR are defined by <\fBlanginfo.h\fR>. For example:
.sp
.LP
\fBnl_langinfo (ABDAY_1);\fR
.sp
.LP
would return a pointer to the string "\fBDim\fR" if the identified language was French and a French locale was correctly installed; or "\fBSun\fR" if the identified language was English.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If \fBsetlocale\fR(3C) has not been called successfully, or if  data for a supported language is either not available, or if \fIitem\fR is not defined therein, then \fBnl_langinfo()\fR returns a pointer to the corresponding string in the C locale. In all locales,  \fBnl_langinfo()\fR returns a pointer to an empty string if \fIitem\fR contains an invalid setting.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fBnl_langinfo()\fR function can be used safely in multithreaded applications, as long as \fBsetlocale\fR(3C) is not being called to change the locale.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBlanginfo.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBnl_types.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
The array pointed to by the return value should not be modified by the program. Subsequent calls to  \fBnl_langinfo()\fR may overwrite the array.
