'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH pthread_attr_getstackaddr 3C "23 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pthread_attr_getstackaddr, pthread_attr_setstackaddr \- get or set stackaddr attribute
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_attr_getstackaddr\fR(\fBconst pthread_attr_t *restrict\fR \fIattr\fR,
     \fBvoid **restrict\fR \fIstackaddr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpthread_attr_setstackaddr\fR(\fBpthread_attr_t *\fR\fIattr\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIstackaddr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The functions \fBpthread_attr_setstackaddr()\fR and \fBpthread_attr_getstackaddr()\fR, respectively, set and get the thread creation \fIstackaddr\fR attribute in the \fIattr\fR object. The \fIstackaddr\fR default is \fINULL\fR. See \fBpthread_create\fR(3C). 
.sp
.LP
The \fIstackaddr\fR attribute specifies the location of storage to be used for the created thread's stack. The size of the storage is at least  \fBPTHREAD_STACK_MIN.\fR 
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBpthread_attr_setstackaddr()\fR and \fBpthread_attr_getstackaddr()\fR return a value of  \fB0\fR. Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
If successful, the \fBpthread_attr_getstackaddr()\fR function stores the \fIstackaddr\fR attribute value in \fIstackaddr\fR.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_attr_setstackaddr()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
\fIattr\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The  \fBpthread_attr_getstackaddr()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
\fIattr\fR or \fIstackaddr\fR is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpthread_attr_init\fR(3C), \fBpthread_attr_setdetachstate\fR(3C), \fBpthread_attr_setstacksize\fR(3C), \fBpthread_create\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5) 
