'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH ptsname 3C "14 Aug 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ptsname \- get name of the slave pseudo-terminal device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBchar *\fR\fBptsname\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBptsname()\fR function returns the name of the slave pseudo-terminal device associated with a master pseudo-terminal device. \fIfildes\fR is a file descriptor returned from a successful open of the master device. \fBptsname()\fR returns a pointer to a string containing the null-terminated path name of the slave device of the form \fB/dev/pts/N\fR, where \fBN\fR is a non-negative integer.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the function \fBptsname()\fR returns a pointer to a string which is the name of the pseudo-terminal slave device. This value points to a static data area that is overwritten by each call to \fBptsname()\fR. Upon failure, \fBptsname()\fR returns \fINULL\fR. This could occur if \fIfildes\fR is an invalid file descriptor or if  the slave device name does not exist in the file system.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBopen\fR(2), \fBgrantpt\fR(3C), \fBttyname\fR(3C), \fBunlockpt\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
