'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH setcat 3C "29 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
setcat \- define default catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <pfmt.h>

\fBchar *\fR\fBsetcat\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIcatalog\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsetcat()\fR function defines the default message catalog to be used by subsequent calls to \fBgettxt\fR(3C), \fBlfmt\fR(3C), or \fBpfmt\fR(3C) that do not explicitly specify a message catalog.
.sp
.LP
The \fIcatalog\fR argument must be limited to 14 characters. These characters must be selected from a set of all characters values, excluding \fB\e0\fR (null) and the ASCII codes for \fB/\fR (slash) and \fB:\fR (colon).
.sp
.LP
The \fBsetcat()\fR function assumes that the catalog exists. No checking is done on the argument.
.sp
.LP
A null pointer passed as an argument will result in the return of a pointer to the current default message catalog name. A pointer to an empty string passed as an argument will cancel the default catalog.
.sp
.LP
If no default catalog is specified, or if \fIcatalog\fR is an invalid catalog name, subsequent calls to \fBgettxt\fR(3C), \fBlfmt\fR(3C), or \fBpfmt\fR(3C) that do not explicitly specify a catalog name will use \fBMessage not found!!\en\fR as default string.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBsetcat()\fR returns a pointer to the catalog name.  Otherwise, it returns a null pointer.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRExample of \fBsetcat()\fR function.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
        setcat("test");
        gettxt(":10", "hello world\en")
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgettxt\fR(3C), \fBlfmt\fR(3C), \fBpfmt\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5) 
