'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH strerror 3C "31 Mar 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
strerror, strerror_r \- get error message string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <string.h>

\fBchar *\fR\fBstrerror\fR(\fBint\fR \fIerrnum\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBstrerror_r\fR(\fBint\fR \fIerrnum\fR, \fBchar *\fR\fIstrerrbuf\fR, \fBsize_t\fR  \fIbuflen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstrerror()\fR function maps the error number in \fIerrnum\fR to an error message string, and returns a pointer to that string. It uses the same set of error messages as \fBperror\fR(3C). The returned string should not be overwritten.
.sp
.LP
The \fBstrerror_r()\fR function maps the error number in \fIerrnum\fR to an error message string and returns the string in the buffer pointed to by \fIstrerrbuf\fR with length \fIbuflen\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBstrerror()\fR returns a pointer to the generated message string. Otherwise, it sets \fBerrno\fR and returns a pointer to an error message string. It returns the string "Unknown error" if \fIerrnum\fR is not a valid error number. 
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBstrerror_r()\fR returns 0.  Otherwise it sets \fBerrno\fR and returns the value of \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error. It returns the string "Unknown error" in the buffer pointed to by \fIstrerrbuf\fR if \fIerrnum\fR is not a valid error number.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The value of \fIerrnum\fR is not a valid error number.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBstrerror_r()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBERANGE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fIbuflen\fR argument specifies insufficient storage to contain the generated message string.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Messages returned from these functions are in the native language specified by the \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR locale category. See \fBsetlocale\fR(3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgettext\fR(3C), \fBperror\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
