'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\"  Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH swab 3C "24 Mar 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
swab \- swap bytes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBswab\fR(\fBconst void *restrict\fR \fIsrc\fR, \fBvoid *restrict\fR \fIdest\fR,
     \fBssize_t\fR \fInbytes\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBswab()\fR function copies \fInbytes\fR bytes, which are pointed to by \fIsrc\fR, to the object pointed to by \fIdest\fR, exchanging adjacent bytes.  The \fInbytes\fR argument should be even. If \fInbytes\fR is odd \fBswab()\fR copies and exchanges \fInbytes\fR\(mi1 bytes and the disposition of the last byte is unspecified. If copying takes place between objects that overlap, the behavior is undefined. If \fInbytes\fR is negative, \fBswab()\fR does nothing.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
