'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH tcgetsid 3C "14 Aug 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
tcgetsid \- get process group ID for session leader for controlling terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <termios.h>

\fBpid_t\fR \fBtcgetsid\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBtcgetsid()\fR function obtains the process group \fBID\fR of the session for which the terminal specified by \fIfildes\fR is the controlling terminal.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBtcgetsid()\fR returns the process group \fBID\fR associated with the terminal.  Otherwise, a value of \fB(pid_t)\(mi1\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBtcgetsid()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fIfildes\fR argument is not associated with a controlling terminal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fIfildes\fR argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOTTY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The file associated with \fIfildes\fR is not a terminal.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5), \fBtermio\fR(7I) 
