'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH unsetenv 3C "1 Nov 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
unsetenv \- remove an environment variable
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBint\fR \fBunsetenv\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBunsetenv()\fR function removes an environment variable from the environment of the calling process. The \fIname\fR argument points to a string that is the name of the variable to be removed. The named argument cannot contain an '=' character. If the named variable does not exist in the current environment, the environment is unchanged and the function is considered to have completed successfully.
.sp
.LP
If the application modifies \fIenviron\fR or the pointers to which it points, the behavior of \fBunsetenv()\fR is undefined. The \fBunsetenv()\fR function updates the list of pointers to which \fIenviron\fR points.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, -1 is returned, \fBerrno\fR set to indicate the error, and the environment is left unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBunsetenv()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The \fIname\fR argument is a null pointer, points to an empty string, or points to a string containing an '=' character.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgetenv\fR(3C), \fBsetenv\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
