'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH wcswidth 3C "14 Aug 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
wcswidth \- number of column positions of a wide-character string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>

\fBint\fR \fBwcswidth\fR(\fBconst wchar_t *\fR\fIpwcs\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBwcswidth()\fR function determines the number of column positions required for \fIn\fR wide-character codes (or fewer than \fIn\fR wide-character codes if a null wide-character code is encountered before \fIn\fR wide-character codes are exhausted) in the string pointed to by \fIpwcs\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBwcswidth()\fR function either returns \fB0\fR (if \fIpwcs\fR points to a null wide-character code), or returns the number of column positions to be occupied by the wide-character string pointed to by \fIpwcs\fR, or returns \fB\(mi1\fR (if any of the first \fIn\fR wide-character codes in the wide-character string pointed to by \fIpwcs\fR is not a printing wide-character code).
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBwcwidth\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
