'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH wctrans 3C "14 Aug 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Standard C Library Functions"
.SH NAME
wctrans \- define character mapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wctype.h>

\fBwctrans_t\fR \fBwctrans\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIcharclass\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBwctrans()\fR function is defined for valid character mapping names identified in the current locale. The \fIcharclass\fR is a string identifying a generic character mapping name for which codeset-specific information is required.  The following character mapping names are defined in all locales \(mi "tolower" and "toupper".
.sp
.LP
The function returns a value of type \fBwctrans_t\fR, which can be used as the second argument to subsequent calls of \fBtowctrans\fR(3C). The \fBwctrans()\fR function determines values of \fBwctrans_t\fR according to the rules of the coded character set defined by character mapping information in the program's locale (category \fBLC_CTYPE\fR). The values returned by \fBwctrans()\fR are valid until a call to \fBsetlocale\fR(3C) that modifies the category \fBLC_CTYPE\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBwctrans()\fR function returns \fB0\fR if the given character mapping name is not valid for the current locale (category \fBLC_CTYPE\fR), otherwise it returns a non-zero object of type \fBwctrans_t\fR that can be used in calls to \fBtowctrans\fR(3C).
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBwctrans()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The character mapping name pointed to by \fIcharclass\fR is not valid in the current locale.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe with exceptions
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBtowctrans\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
