'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2005, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH adb 1 "2 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
adb \- general-purpose debugger
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBadb\fR [\fB-kw\fR] [\fB-I\fR \fIdir\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIprompt\fR] [\fB-V\fR \fImode\fR] [\fIobject\fR [\fIcore\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBadb\fR utility is an interactive, general-purpose debugger. It can be used to examine files and provides a controlled environment for the execution of programs.
.sp
.LP
The \fBadb\fR utility is now implemented as a link to the \fBmdb\fR(1) utility. \fBmdb\fR(1) is a low-level debugging utility that can be used to examine user processes as well as the live operating system or operating system crash dumps. The new \fBmdb\fR(1) utility provides complete backwards compatibility with the existing syntax and features of \fBadb\fR, including support for processing \fBadb\fR macro files. The \fIOracle Solaris Modular Debugger Guide\fR and \fBmdb\fR(1) man page describes the features of \fBmdb\fR, including its \fBadb\fR compatibility mode. This mode will be activated by default when the \fBadb\fR link is executed.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitydeveloper/debug/mdb
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmdb\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIOracle Solaris Modular Debugger Guide\fR
