'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH apropos 1 "8 May 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
apropos \- locate commands by keyword lookup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBapropos\fR \fIkeyword\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBapropos\fR utility displays the manual page name, section number, subsection name, the \fIkeyword\fR, and a short description for each manual page that contains \fIkeyword\fR. 
.sp
.LP
This information is contained in the index files that are either automatically created by an SMF service as described in \fBman\fR(1) and \fBman\fR(5), or manually created using \fBcatman\fR(1M) with \fB-w\fR option.
.sp
.LP
Each word is considered separately and the case of letters is ignored. Stemming on English words and section matching are also supported. Words which are part of other words are considered. For example, when looking for \fBcompile\fR, \fBapropos\fR finds all instances of \fBcompiler\fR as well. . 
.sp
.LP
As \fBapropos\fR is simply the \fB-k\fR option to the \fBman\fR(1) command, see \fBman\fR(1) for more details.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRFinding a Manual Page with a Name Line Containing \fIkeyword\fR
.sp
.LP
Try

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBapropos password\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
and

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBapropos editor\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If the line starts \fIfilename\fR(\fIsection\fR\fB) ...\fR, you can run 

.sp
.in +2
.nf
man -s \fIsection filename\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
to display the manual page for \fIfilename\fR.

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRFinding a Manual Page for the \fBprintf()\fR Subroutine
.sp
.LP
Try 

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBapropos format\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
and then 

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBman -s 3s printf\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
to get the manual page on the subroutine \fBprintf()\fR.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/man/man_index/*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt  
Table of Contents and keyword database.
.sp
Generated files include: 
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB/usr/share/man/man_index/man.idx\fR 
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB/usr/share/man/man_index/man.dic\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB/usr/share/man/man_index/man.frq\fR 
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB/usr/share/man/man_index/man.pos\fR
.RE
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitytext/doctools
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBman\fR(1), \fBwhatis\fR(1), \fBcatman\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBman\fR(5)
