'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH asa 1 "17 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
asa \- convert FORTRAN carriage-control output to printable form
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBasa\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBasa\fR utility will write its input files to standard output, mapping carriage-control characters from the text files to line-printer control sequences.
.sp
.LP
The first character of every line will be removed from the input, and the following actions will be performed.
.sp
.LP
If the character removed is:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSPACE\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
The rest of the line will be output without change.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
It is replaced by a NEWLINE control sequence followed by the rest  of the input line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
It is replaced by a NEWPAGE control sequence followed by the rest  of the input line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB+\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
It is replaced by a control sequence that causes printing to  return to the first column of the previous line, where the rest of  the input line is printed.
.RE

.sp
.LP
For any other character in the first column of an input line, \fBasa\fR skips the character and prints the rest of the line unchanged.
.sp
.LP
If \fBasa\fR is called without providing a \fIfilename\fR, the standard input is used.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Start each file on a new page.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
A pathname of a text file used for input. If no \fBfile\fR operands are specified, or \fB\|\(mi\|\fR is specified, the standard input will be used.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the execution of \fBasa\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
All input files were output successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
