'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. 
.TH audioctl 1 "15 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
audioctl \- audio mixer control command line application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBaudioctl\fR \fBlist-devices\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBaudioctl\fR \fBshow-device\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdevice\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBaudioctl\fR \fBshow-control\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdevice\fR] [\fIcontrol\fR ...]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBaudioctl\fR \fBset-control\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdevice\fR] \fIcontrol value\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBaudioctl\fR \fBsave-controls\fR [\fB-d\fR \fIdevice\fR] [-f] \fIfile\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBaudioctl\fR \fBload-controls\fR [\fB-d\fR \fIdevice\fR] \fIfile\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudioctl\fR command is used to control various features of the audio mixer and to get information about the audio mixer and the audio device. The \fBaudioctl\fR command operates on the following data types: 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdevice\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
An audio device, such as \fBaudiohd#0\fR. The subcommands that accept this do so as an argument to an option \fB-d\fR. If not supplied, the default audio device is assumed. Any device node associated with an audio device works as well, such as \fB/dev/sound/0\fR, \fB/dev/dsp1\fR, or \fB/dev/audio\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcontrol\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
A mixer control name, such as \fBvolume\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The value of a control. The specific format depends on the type of control. Monophonic values usually use a single whole number between \fB0\fR and \fB100\fR, inclusive. Stereo values use a pair of such numbers, representing the right and left channels. Boolean values indicate either \fBon\fR or \fBoff\fR. Enumerations take a single value of one or more names.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
An ASCII text file of control settings.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Each subcommand has its own set of options that it takes. However, some subcommands support the special flag -v, which indicates a request for more verbose output. 
.SH SUB-COMMANDS
.sp
.LP
The following subcommands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBaudioctl list-devices\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List all the audio devices on the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBaudioctl show-device [-v] [-d\fR \fIdevices\fR\fB]\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display general information about a device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBaudioctl show-control [-v] [-d \fIdevice\fR] [\fIcontrol ..\fR]\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the control setting values for the device. The named controls are displayed. If no control names are provided, then all control values are displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBaudioctl set-control [-v] [-d \fIdevice\fR] \fIcontrol value\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Changes the value of a control to the supplied value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBaudioctl save-controls [-f] [-d \fIdevice\fR] \fIfile\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Saves the current state of all mixer control values to the named file. The command aborts safely if the file already exists, unless \fB-f\fR is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBaudioctl load-controls [-d \fIdevice\fR] \fIfile\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Restores previously saved state in the named file for all mixer controls.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAUDIODEV\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
If the \fB-d\fR and \fB-a\fR options are not specified, the \fBAUDIODEV\fR environment variable is consulted. If set, \fBAUDIODEV\fR contains the full path name of the user's default audio device.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
\fB/dev/audioctl /dev/sound/{0...n}ctl\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC, x86
_
Availabilitysystem/io/audio
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The \fBaudioctl\fR command and its subcommands are Committed. The human readable output is Not An Interface. The device names, control names, and values are Uncommitted. The format of the state files used by the \fBsave-controls\fR and \fBload-controls\fR  subcommands is Committed Private.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBaudioconvert\fR(1), \fBaudioplay\fR(1), \fBaudiorecord\fR(1), \fBopen\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5)
