'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH audiotest 1 "1 Dec 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
audiotest \- test audio device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBaudiotest\fR [\fB-24571\fR] [\fIdev\fR] ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudiotest\fR utility runs a test for the named audio device (or all audio devices found on the system if none is given). The test includes playing an audio sample over each channel and measuring the rate of playback for clock drift.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Loop mode. The test is run in an infinite loop.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Stereo (2-channel) mode. This is the default mode. Playback assumes 2 channels are present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-4\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Quadraphonic mode (4-channel surround). The test assumes that four surround channels are present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-5\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Surround sound mode (5.1). The test checks the left, right, surround left, surround right, and center channels. The low frequency effects channel is not tested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-7\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Surround sound mode (7.1). The test checks the left, right, surround left, surround right, back surround left, back surround right, and center channels. The low frequency effects channel is not tested.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdev\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
The path the device to test, for example, \fB/dev/dsp0\fR.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC, x86
_
Availabilityaudio/audio-utilities
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBaudioconvert\fR(1), \fBaudioctl\fR(1), \fBaudiorecord\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBaudio\fR(7I)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
\fBaudiotest\fR has no way to detect the number of actual audio channels supported by the physical device.
.sp
.LP
\fBaudiotest\fR does not test the low-frequency effects (LFE) channel.
.sp
.LP
There is no test for audio capture, volume controls, or other advanced device features.
