'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH auths 1 "10 Mar 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
auths \- print authorizations granted to a user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBauths\fR [ \fIuser\fR ]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBauths\fR command prints on standard output the authorizations that you or the optionally-specified user or role have been granted. Authorizations are rights that are checked by certain privileged programs to determine whether a user may execute restricted functionality.
.sp
.LP
Each user may have zero or more authorizations. Authorizations are represented by fully-qualified names, which identify the organization that created the authorization and the functionality that it controls. Following the Java convention, the hierarchical components of an authorization are separated by dots (\fB\&.\fR), starting with the reverse order Internet domain name of the creating organization, and ending with the specific function within a class of authorizations.
.sp
.LP
An asterisk (\fB*\fR) indicates all authorizations in a class.
.sp
.LP
A user's authorizations are looked up in \fBuser_attr\fR(4) and in the \fB/etc/security/policy.conf\fR file (see \fBpolicy.conf\fR(4)). Authorizations may be specified directly in \fBuser_attr\fR(4) or indirectly through \fBprof_attr\fR(4). Authorizations may also be assigned to every user in the system directly as default authorizations or indirectly as default profiles in the \fB/etc/security/policy.conf\fR file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRSample output
.sp
.LP
The \fBauths\fR output has the following form:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBauths tester01 tester02\fR
tester01 : solaris.system.date,solaris.jobs.admin
tester02 : solaris.system.*
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Notice that there is no space after the comma separating the authorization names in \fBtester01\fR.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/user_attr\fR
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/security/auth_attr\fR
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/security/policy.conf\fR
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/security/prof_attr\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBprofiles\fR(1), \fBroles\fR(1), \fBgetauthattr\fR(3C), \fBauth_attr\fR(4), \fBpolicy.conf\fR(4), \fBprof_attr\fR(4), \fBuser_attr\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
