'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH dumpcs 1 "20 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dumpcs \- show codeset table for the current locale
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdumpcs\fR [\fB-0123vw\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBdumpcs\fR shows a list of printable characters for the user's current locale, along with their hexadecimal code values. The display device is assumed to be capable of displaying characters for a given locale. With no option, \fBdumpcs\fR displays the entire list of printable characters for the current locale.
.sp
.LP
With one or more numeric options specified, it shows \fBEUC\fR codeset(s) for the current locale according to the numbers specified, and in order of codeset number. Each non-printable character is represented by an asterisk "*" and enough \fBASCII\fR space character(s) to fill that codeset's column width.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Show \fBASCII\fR (or \fBEUC\fR primary) codeset.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-1\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Show \fBEUC\fR codeset 1, if used for the current locale.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-2\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Show \fBEUC\fR codeset 2, if used for the current locale.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-3\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Show \fBEUC\fR codeset 3, if used for the current locale.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
"Verbose". Normally, ranges of non-printable characters are collapsed into a single line. This option produces one line for each non-printable character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Replace code values with corresponding wide character values (process codes).
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
The environment variables \fBLC_CTYPE\fR and \fBLANG\fR control the character classification throughout \fBdumpcs\fR. On entry to \fBdumpcs\fR, these environment variables are checked in that order. This implies that a new setting for \fBLANG\fR does not override the setting of \fBLC_CTYPE\fR. When none of the values is valid, the character classification defaults to the POSIX.1 "C" locale.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
Availabilitysystem/core-os
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlocaledef\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBdumpcs\fR can only handle \fBEUC\fR locales.
