'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH hash 1 "12 Jul 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
hash, rehash, unhash, hashstat \- evaluate the internal hash table of the   contents of directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/hash\fR [\fIutility\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/hash\fR [\fB-r\fR]
.fi

.SS "sh"
.LP
.nf
\fBhash\fR [\fB-r\fR] [\fIname\fR]...
.fi

.SS "csh"
.LP
.nf
\fBrehash\fR 
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBunhash\fR 
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBhashstat\fR 
.fi

.SS "ksh88"
.LP
.nf
\fBhash\fR [\fIname\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBhash\fR [\fB-r\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/hash"
.sp
.LP
The \fB/usr/bin/hash\fR utility affects the way the current shell environment remembers the locations of utilities found.  Depending on the arguments specified, it adds utility locations to its list of remembered locations or it purges the contents of the list. When no arguments are specified, it reports on the contents of the list. The \fB-r\fR option causes the shell to forget all remembered locations.
.sp
.LP
Utilities provided as built-ins to the shell are not reported by \fBhash\fR.
.SS "sh"
.sp
.LP
For each \fIname\fR, the location in the search path of the command specified by \fIname\fR is determined and remembered by the shell. The \fB-r\fR option to the \fBhash\fR built-in causes the shell to forget all remembered locations. If no arguments are given, \fBhash\fR provides information about remembered commands. The \fIHits\fR column of output is the number of times a command has been invoked by the shell process. The \fICost\fR column of output is a measure of the work required to locate a command in the search path. If a command is found in a "relative" directory in the search path, after changing to that directory, the stored location of that command is recalculated. Commands for which this will be done are indicated by an asterisk (\fB*\fR) adjacent to the \fIHits\fR information. \fICost\fR will be incremented when the recalculation is done.
.SS "csh"
.sp
.LP
\fBrehash\fR recomputes the internal hash table of the contents of directories listed in the \fBpath\fR environmental variable to account for new commands added.
.sp
.LP
\fBunhash\fR disables the internal hash table.
.sp
.LP
\fBhashstat\fR prints a statistics line indicating how effective the internal hash table has been at locating commands (and avoiding \fBexec\fRs). An \fBexec\fR is attempted for each component of the \fIpath\fR where the hash function indicates a possible hit and in each component that does not begin with a '\|/\|'.
.SS "ksh88"
.sp
.LP
For each \fIname\fR, the location in the search path of the command specified by \fIname\fR is determined and remembered by the shell. The \fB-r\fR option to the \fBhash\fR built-in causes the shell to forget all remembered locations. If no arguments are given, \fBhash\fR provides information about remembered commands.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported by \fBhash\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIutility\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The name of a utility to be searched for and added to the list of remembered locations.
.RE

.SH OUTPUT
.sp
.LP
The standard output of \fBhash\fR is used when no arguments are specified. Its format is unspecified, but includes the pathname of each utility in the list of remembered locations for the current shell environment. This list consists of those utilities named in previous \fBhash\fR invocations that have been invoked, and may contain those invoked and found through the normal command search process.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the execution of \fBhash\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPATH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Determine the location of \fIutility\fR.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned by \fBhash\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsh\fR(1), \fBksh88\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
