'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH keylogin 1 "10 Dec 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
keylogin \- decrypt and store secret key with keyserv
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/keylogin\fR [\fB-r\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBkeylogin\fR command prompts for a password, and uses it to decrypt the user's secret key. The key can be found in the \fB/etc/publickey\fR file (see \fBpublickey\fR(4)) or the  NIS map ``publickey.byname'' in the user's home domain. The sources and their lookup order are specified in the \fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR file. See \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4). Once decrypted, the user's secret key is stored by the local key server process, \fBkeyserv\fR(1M). This stored key is used when issuing requests to any secure RPC services, such as \fBNFS\fR. The program \fBkeylogout\fR(1) can be used to delete the key stored by \fBkeyserv\fR \fB\&.\fR
.sp
.LP
\fBkeylogin\fR fails if it cannot get the caller's key, or the password given is incorrect. For a new user or host, a new key can be added using  \fBnewkey\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
If multiple authentication mechanisms are configured for the system, each of the configured mechanism's secret key is decrypted and stored by  \fBkeyserv\fR(1M).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported: 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Update the \fB/etc/.rootkey\fR file. This file holds the unencrypted secret key of the superuser. Only the superuser can use this option. It is used so that processes running as superuser can issue authenticated requests without requiring that the administrator explicitly run \fBkeylogin\fR as superuser at system startup time. See \fBkeyserv\fR(1M). The \fB-r\fR option should be used by the administrator when the host's entry in the publickey database has changed, and the \fB/etc/.rootkey\fR file has become out-of-date with  respect to the actual key pair stored in the publickey database. The permissions on the \fB/etc/.rootkey\fR file are such that it can be read and written by the superuser but by no other user on the system.
.sp
If multiple authentication mechanisms are configured for the system, each of the configured mechanism's secret keys is stored in the \fB/etc/.rootkey\fR file.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/.rootkey\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
superuser's secret key
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBchkey\fR(1), \fBkeylogout\fR(1), \fBlogin\fR(1), \fBkeyserv\fR(1M), \fBnewkey\fR(1M), \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4), \fBpublickey\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
