'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1994, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH listusers 1 "18 Mar 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
listusers \- list user login information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBlistusers\fR [\fB-g\fR \fIgroups\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlogins\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Executed without any options, this command lists all user logins sorted by login. The output shows the login \fBID\fR and the account field value  from the system's password database as specified by \fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR\fI groups\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Lists all user logins belonging to \fBgroup\fR, sorted by login. Multiple groups can be specified as a comma-separated list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fI logins\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Lists the user login or logins specified by \fBlogins\fR, sorted by login. Multiple logins can be specified as a comma-separated list.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
Availabilitysystem/core-os
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
A user login is one that has a \fBUID\fR of 100 or greater.
.sp
.LP
The \fB-l\fR and \fB-g\fR options can be combined. User logins will only be listed once, even if they belong to more than one of the selected groups.
