'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH llc2_config 1 "15 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
llc2_config \- configure LLC2 interface parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/llc2/llc2_config\fR 
     [\fB-P\fR | \fB-U\fR | \fB-d\fR | \fB-q\fR | \fB-i\fR \fIppa\fR | \fB-r\fR \fIppa\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBllc2_config\fR utility is used to start/stop the LLC2 subsystem and to configure LLC2 interface parameters.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Turns on debug mode.  Extra debugging information will be printed out.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fIppa\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Initializes the corresponding interface using the file \fB/etc/llc2/default/llc2.\fIppa\fR\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Reads in all \fB/etc/llc2/default/llc2.*\fR configuration files, opens those devices defined in the files, and sets up the streams needed for LLC2 to use those devices.  Before doing this, \fBllc2_config\fR \fB-q\fR will not show anything.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Queries the LLC2 subsystem. Information similar to the following example will be printed out for all PPAs (Physical Point of Attachment) available under the LLC2 module:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
PPA State  ID      MACAddr     Type    MaxSDU  MinSDU  Mode
 0   up   0000   0800208a217e ethernet  1500      0      3
.fi
.in -2
.sp

  The fields displayed are described below:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPPA\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The relative logical position of the interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBState\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The state of the interface: 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIup\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
The interface is initialized and operational. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdown\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
The interface was "discovered" by the LLC2 driver, has passed its bootup diagnostics, and is awaiting initialization.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIbad\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
The interface is known to the LLC2 driver, but failed one or more of the integrity checks performed at boot time. This might include detecting Interrupt Request and shared memory conflicts or failures detected during the execution of the level 0 diagnostics.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBID\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The interface ID.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMACAddr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The MAC address currently in effect for the interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBType\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The MAC type. Current types supported include:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBcsma/cd\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
10 Megabit Ethernet
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBethernet\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Ethernet type device
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBtkn-ring\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
4/16 Megabit Token Ring
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfddi\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
100 Megabit Fiber Distributed Data Interface
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMaxSDU\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The Maximum Service Data Unit size transmitted on this interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The Service Modes supported by this interface. This field consists of the bitwise logical-ORing of the supported modes, also defined in \fB/usr/include/sys/dlpi.h\fR.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR \fIppa\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Uninitializes the corresponding interface. By using this option, and then using the \fB-i\fR option, the parameters associated with an interface can be changed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-U\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Destroys all streams used by the LLC2 subsystem. This is the reverse of the \fB-P\fR option.  After this is executed, \fBllc2_config\fR \fB-q\fR will not show anything.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/llc2/default/llc2.*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
LLC2 configuration files
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/network/llc2
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBllc2_autoconfig\fR(1), \fBllc2\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBllc2\fR(7D)
