'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH llc2_autoconfig 1 "15 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
llc2_autoconfig \- generate LLC2 configuration files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/llc2/llc2_autoconfig\fR [\fB-f\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBllc2_autoconfig\fR utility is used to generate LLC2 configuration files (\fB/etc/llc2/default/llc2.*\fR). If there is no configuration file in \fB/etc/llc2_default/\fR, it detects all the available interfaces in the system and generates corresponding default configuration files.
.sp
.LP
If there are existing configuration files in \fB/etc/llc2_default/\fR, it will check if those interfaces defined in the files still exist. If they do not exist in the system, it will set \fBllc2_on\fR in those files to 0. After this, it will detect if there are new interfaces in the system. If there are, it will generate configuration files for them.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Erases all configuration files in \fB/etc/llc2/default/\fR.  Then detects all the available interfaces in the system and generates corresponding default configuration files. Use this option with caution.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/llc2/default/llc2.*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
LLC2 configuration files
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/network/llc2
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBllc2_config\fR(1), \fBllc2\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBllc2\fR(7D)
