'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH llc2_stats 1 "15 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
llc2_stats \- LLC2 Station, SAP, and Connection Statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBllc2_stats\fR \fIppa\fR [\fB-r\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsap\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIconnection\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The  \fBllc2_stats\fR command is used to retrieve statistical information from the Host-based Logical Link Control Class 2 component of the LLC2 Driver. Statistics are kept for the station, \fBSAP\fR (Service Access Point), and connection components.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fIconnection\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Specifies the connection of interest. Its value is entered in hexadecimal notation with no leading \fB0x\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Resets the specified counters to zero after reading them. This option is only valid if the \fIroot\fR user is executing the command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fIsap\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Specifies the \fBSAP\fR for this request. It is a single-byte value, expressed in hexadecimal notation with no leading \fB0x\fR. For example, the NetBIOS sap, 240 (0xf0) would be entered as:  \fB-s\fR \fBf0\fR.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIppa\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
The logical number used to address the adapter. The PPA (Physical Point of Attachment) must be the first argument.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRStation Statistics
.sp
.LP
The following command will display the station statistics for  \fBPPA\fR \fB4\fR.  After the example, a brief description of each field is presented.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/usr/lib/llc2/llc2_stats 4\fR

Station values received:
ppa                = 0x00000004  clearFlag = 0x00
# of saps (hex)    = 0x0002
saps (hex)         = 02 aa
state              = 0x01
nullSapXidCmdRcvd  = 0x00000000
nullSapXidRspSent  = 0x00000000
nullSapTestCmdRcvd = 0x00000000
nullSapTestRspSent = 0x00000000
outOfState         = 0x00000000
allocFail          = 0x00000000
protocolError      = 0x00000000
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The fields are described as follows:

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBppa\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The logical number used to address the adapter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBclearFlag\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
This flag indicates if the statistics will be reset to zero after reading (set to a 1) or if the statistics are read only (set to 0).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB# of saps\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The number of \fBSAP\fRs currently bound on this station.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsaps\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The array of the station's Service Access Point (\fBSAP\fR) logical interface values between the LLC and its adjacent layers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBstate\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
A number indicating the current state of the station component (0 = down, 1 = up).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnullSapXidCmdRcvd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The number of XID command Protocol Data Units (PDUs) received for the NULL \fBSAP\fR address (sap = 0x00).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnullSapXidRspSent\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The number of XID response PDUs sent in response to XID command PDUs received for the null \fBSAP\fR address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnullSapTestCmdRcvd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The number of TEST command PDUs received for the null \fBSAP\fR address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnullSapTestRspSent\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The number of TEST response PDUs sent in response to TEST command PDUs received for the null \fBSAP\fR address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBoutOfState\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The number of events received in an invalid state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBallocFail\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The number of buffer allocation failures.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBprotocolError\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The number of LLC protocol errors, that is, the receipt of malformed PDUs or the receipt of frame X when frame Y was expected.
.RE

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRSAP Statistics
.sp
.LP
In the above display, there are two active \fBSAP\fRs, \fB0x02\fR and \fB0xaa\fR. The following is an example of a command for retrieving the statistics for \fBSAP 02\fR and a brief explanation of each field presented.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/usr/lib/llc2/llc2_stats 4 -s 02\fR

Sap values received:
ppa                = 0x00000004  clearFlag = 0x00
sap                = 0x02
state              = 0x01
# of cons (hex)    = 0x0000000a
connections (hex)  = 0000 0001 0002 0003 0004 0005 0006 0007 0008 0009
xidCmdSent         = 0x00000000
xidCmdRcvd         = 0x00000000
xidRspSent         = 0x00000000
xidRspRcvd         = 0x00000000
testCmdSent        = 0x00000000
testCmdRcvd        = 0x00000000
testRspSent        = 0x00000000
testRspRcvd        = 0x00000000
uiSent             = 0x00000000
uiRcvd             = 0x00000000
outOfState         = 0x00000000
allocFail          = 0x00000000
protocolError      = 0x00000000
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The fields are described as follows:

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBppa\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The logical number used to address the adapter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBclearFlag\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
This flag indicates if the statistics will be reset to zero after reading (set to a 1) or if the statistics are read only (set to 0).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsap\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The specified Service Access Point (\fBSAP\fR) logical interface value for the  station.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBstate\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
A number indicating the current state of the \fBSAP\fR component (0 = inactive, 1 = active).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB# of cons\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The number of active connections on this \fBSAP\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBconnections\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The array of active connection indexes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBxidCmdSent\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The number of XID command PDUs sent (Source \fBSAP\fR = this sap).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBxidCmdRcvd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The number of XID command PDUs received (Destination \fBSAP\fR = this sap).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBxidRspSent\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The number of XID response PDUs sent (Source \fBSAP\fR = this sap).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBxidRspRcvd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The number of XID response PDUs received (Source \fBSAP\fR = this sap).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtestCmdSent\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The number of TEST command PDUs sent (Source \fBSAP\fR = this sap).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtestCmdRcvd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The number of TEST command PDUs received (Destination \fBSAP\fR = this sap).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtestRspSent\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The number of TEST response PDUs sent (Source \fBSAP\fR = this sap).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtestRspRcvd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The number of TEST response PDUs received (Source SAP = this sap).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBuiSent\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The number of Unnumbered Information Frames sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBuiRcvd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The number of Unnumbered Information Frames received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBoutOfState\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The number of events received in an invalid state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBallocFail\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The number of buffer allocation failures.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBprotocolError\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
The number of LLC protocol errors, that is, the receipt of malformed PDUs or the receipt of frame X when frame Y was expected.
.RE

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRConnection Statistics
.sp
.LP
Ten established connections are associated with this \fBSAP\fR. To retrieve the statistics for connection \fB1\fR, enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/usr/lib/llc2/llc2_stats 4 -s 2 -c 1\fR
Connection values received:
ppa          = 0x0004  clearFlag    = 0x00
sap          = 0x02        con          = 0x0001  sid           = 0x0201
stateOldest  = 0x00        stateOlder   = 0x00    stateOld      = 0x01
state        = 0x08
dl_nodeaddr  = 0x0080d84008c2                     dl_sap        = 0x04
flag         = 0x50    dataFlag     = 0x00   timerOn       = 0x18
vs           = 0x29    vr = 0x1e             nrRcvd = 0x29  k = 0x14
retryCount   = 0x0000  numToBeAcked = 0x0000 numToResend   = 0x0000
macOutSave   = 0x0000  macOutDump   = 0x0000
iSent        = 0x0ba9  iRcvd        = 0x001e
frmrSent     = 0x0000  frmrRcvd     = 0x0000
rrSent       = 0x016a  rrRcvd       = 0x00c1
rnrSent      = 0x0000  rnrRcvd      = 0x06fb
rejSent      = 0x0000  rejRcvd      = 0x0000
sabmeSent    = 0x0000  sabmeRcvd    = 0x0001
uaSent       = 0x0001  uaRcvd       = 0x0000 discSent      = 0x0000
outOfState   = 0x0000  allocFail    = 0x0000 protocolError = 0x0000
localBusy    = 0x0000  remoteBusy   = 0x00b5 maxRetryFail  = 0x0000
ackTimerExp  = 0x0000  pollTimerExp = 0x0000 rejTimerExp   = 0x0000
remBusyTimerExp  = 0x0000
inactTimerExp    = 0x0000
sendAckTimerExp  = 0x0000
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBppa\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The logical number used to address the adapter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBclearFlag\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
This flag indicates if the statistics will be reset to zero after reading (set to a 1) or if the statistics are read only (set to 0).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsap\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The specified Service Access Point (\fBSAP\fR) logical interface value for the station.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBcon\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The specified connection index value for the \fBSAP\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBstateOldest\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
A number representing the state of the connection component prior to \fBstateOlder\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBstateOlder\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
A number representing the state of the connection component prior to \fBstateOld\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBstateOld\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
A number representing the state of the connection component prior to \fBstate\fR. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBstate\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
A number representing the most current state of the connection component. See \fBTable 1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsid\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The Station Identifier composed of the \fBSAP\fR (upper byte) and connection index (lower byte).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdl_nodeaddr\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The Data Link Node Address. This is the destination node's \fBMAC\fR address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdl_sap\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The destination node's \fBSAP\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBflag\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The connection component processing flag. See \fBTable 3\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdataFlag\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
A number representing the status of the data units from received I-frame PDUs (0 = not discarded, 1 = discarded, 2 = busy state entered with REJ PDU outstanding).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtimerOn\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
A number representing the timer activity flag, with each bit representing an active timer for this connection. See \fBTable 2\fR for timer definitions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBvs\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The sequence number of the next I-frame PDU to send.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBvr\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The expected sequence number of the next I-frame PDU to be received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnrRcvd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The sequence number plus 1 of the last sent I-frame PDU acknowledged by the remote node.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBk\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The transmit window size.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBretryCount\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The \fBretryCount\fR is incremented whenever a timer expiration occurs. These timers protect outbound frames.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnumToBeAcked\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of outbound I-frames awaiting acknowledgement.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnumToResend\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of outbound I-frames to be retransmitted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBmacOutSave\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
No longer used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBmacOutDump\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
No longer used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBiSent\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of I-frames sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBiRcvd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of I-frames received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBfrmrSent\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of Frame Reject PDUs (FRMR) sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBfrmrRcvd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of Frame Reject PDUs (FRMR) received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrrSent\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of Receiver Ready PDUs (RR) sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrrRcvd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of Receiver Ready PDUs (RR) received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrnrSent\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of Receiver Not Ready PDUs (RNR) sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrnrRcvd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of Receiver Not Ready PDUs (RNR) received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrejSent\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of Reject PDUs (REJ) sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrejRcvd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of Reject PDUs (REJ) received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsabmeSent\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of Set Asynchronous Balanced Mode Extended PDUs (\fBSABME\fR) sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsabmeRcvd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of Set Asynchronous Balanced Mode Extended PDUs (\fBSABME\fR) received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBuaSent\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of Unnumbered Acknowledgment PDUs (UA) sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBuaRcvd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of Unnumbered Acknowledgment PDUs (UA) received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdiscSent\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of Disconnect PDUs (DISC) sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBoutOfState\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of events received in an invalid state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBallocFail\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of buffer allocation failures.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBprotocolError\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of LLC protocol errors, that is, the receipt of malformed PDUs or the receipt of frame X when frame Y was expected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBlocalBusy\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of times this component was in local busy state and could not accept I-frames.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBremoteBusy\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of times the remote connection component was busy and could not accept I-frames.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBmaxRetryFail\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of failures that occurred because maxRetry was reached.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBackTimerExp\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of expirations of the Acknowledgement timer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpollTimerExp\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of expirations of the Poll timer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrejTimerExp\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of expirations of the Reject timer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBremBusyTimerExp\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of expirations of the Remote Busy timer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBinactTimerExp\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of expirations of the Inactivity timer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsendAckTimerExp\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The number of expirations of the Send Acknowledgement timer.
.RE

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
Table 1: \fBLLC2 States\fR
STATION
~~DOWN0x00
~~UP0x01
SAP
~~INACTIVE0x00
~~ACTIVE0x01
CONNECTION
~~ADM0x00
~~CONN0x01
~~RESET_WAIT0x02
~~RESET_CHECK0x03
~~SETUP0x04
~~RESET0x05
~~D_CONN0x06
~~ERROR0x07
~~NORMAL0x08
~~BUSY0x09
~~REJECT0x0a
~~AWAIT0x0b
~~AWAIT_BUSY0x0c
~~AWAIT_REJECT0x0d
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
Table 2: \fBtimersOn\fR
Acknowledgement0x80
Poll0x40
Reject0x20
Remove Busy0x10
Inactivity0x08
Send Acknowledgement0x04
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
Table 3: \fBLLC2 Flags\fR
P_FLAG0x80
F_FLAG0x40
S_FLAG0x20
REMOTE_BUSY0x10
RESEND_PENDING0x08
.TE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/network/llc2
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/llc2\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
clone device
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
For further information on the LLC2 components, states and flags, see the International Standards Organization document, ISO 8802-2: 1994, Section 7.
