'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.TH look 1 "29 Mar 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
look \- find words in the system dictionary or lines in a sorted list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/look\fR [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-t\fR\fIc\fR] \fIstring\fR [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlook\fR command consults a sorted \fIfilename\fR and prints all lines that begin with \fIstring\fR.
.sp
.LP
If no  \fIfilename\fR is specified, \fBlook\fR uses \fB/usr/share/lib/dict/words\fR with collating sequence \fB-df\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBlook\fR limits the length of a word to search for to 256 characters.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Dictionary order. Only letters, digits,  \fBTAB\fR and \fBSPACE\fR characters are used in comparisons.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Fold case. Upper case letters are not distinguished from lower case in comparisons.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fIc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Set termination character. All characters to the right of \fIc\fR in  \fIstring\fR are ignored.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/dict/words\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
spelling list
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/extended-system-utilities
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgrep\fR(1), \fBsort\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
