'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
.TH mconnect 1 "28 Jan 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mconnect \- connect to SMTP mail server socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmconnect\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIport\fR] [\fB-r\fR] [\fIhostname\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmconnect\fR utility opens a connection to the mail server on a given host, so that it can be tested independently of all other mail software. If no host is given, the connection is made to the local host. Servers expect to speak the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (\fBSMTP\fR) on this connection. Exit by typing the \fBquit\fR command. Typing \fBEOF\fR sends an end of file to the server. An interrupt closes the connection immediately and exits.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fIport\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Specify the port number instead of the default \fBSMTP\fR port (number 25) as the next argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
\fBRaw\fR mode: disable the default line buffering and input handling. This produces an effect similar to  \fBtelnet\fR(1) to port number 25.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIhostname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The name of a given host.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fBmconnect\fR command is IPv6-enabled. See \fBip6\fR(7P).
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/mail/sendmail.hf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
Help file for \fBSMTP\fR commands
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/network/smtp/sendmail
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBtelnet\fR(1), \fBsendmail\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBip6\fR(7P)
.sp
.LP
Postel, Jonathan B., \fIRFC 821, Simple Mail Transfer Protocol\fR,  Information Sciences Institute, University of Southern California, August 1982.
