'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T 
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH mkdir 1 "27 Jul 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mkdir \- make directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/mkdir\fR [\fB-m\fR \fImode\fR] [\fB-p\fR] \fIdir\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmkdir\fR command creates the named directories in mode \fB777\fR (possibly altered by the file mode creation mask \fBumask\fR(1)).
.sp
.LP
Standard entries in a directory (for instance, the files "\fB\&.\fR", for the directory itself, and "\fB\&.\|.\fR", for its parent) are made automatically. \fBmkdir\fR cannot create these entries by name. Creation of a directory requires write permission in the parent directory.
.sp
.LP
The owner-ID and group-ID of the new directories are set to the process's effective user-ID and group-ID, respectively. \fBmkdir\fR calls the \fBmkdir\fR(2) system call.
.SS "setgid and mkdir"
.sp
.LP
To change the \fBsetgid\fR bit on a newly created directory, you must use \fBchmod\fR \fBg+s\fR or \fBchmod\fR \fBg-s\fR after executing \fBmkdir\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsetgid\fR bit setting is inherited from the parent directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fImode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
This option allows users to specify the mode to be used for new directories. Choices for modes can be found in \fBchmod\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
With this option, \fBmkdir\fR creates \fIdir\fR by creating all the non-existing parent directories first. The mode given to intermediate directories is the difference between \fB777\fR and the bits set in the file mode creation mask. The difference, however, must be at least \fB300\fR (write and execute permission for the user).
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdir\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
A path name of a directory to be created.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBmkdir\fR when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBmkdir\fR
.sp
.LP
The following example:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBmkdir -p ltr/jd/jan\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
creates the subdirectory structure \fBltr/jd/jan\fR.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the execution of \fBmkdir\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
All the specified directories were created successfully or the \fB-p\fR option was specified and all the specified directories now exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBchmod\fR(1), \fBrm\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBumask\fR(1), \fBIntro\fR(2), \fBmkdir\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
