'\" te
.\" Copyright 2001, 2011, (c) Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH ncakmod 1 "11 Feb 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ncakmod \- start or stop the NCA kernel module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/init.d/ncakmod\fR \fBstart\fR | \fBstop\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBncakmod\fR is used to start or stop the Solaris Network Cache and Accelerator (NCA) kernel module.
.sp
.LP
When the \fBstart\fR option is specified at the command-line, the \fBNCA\fR kernel module will be activated for all physical interfaces listed in the \fBnca.if\fR file. When the \fBncakmod\fR command is invoked with the \fBstop\fR option, the NCA kernel module will print the following message:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
To stop NCA, please set the status configuration parameter 
to disable in ncakmod.conf and then reboot your system. See 
the ncakmod.conf(4) manual page for more information.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To properly stop \fBNCA\fR on your system, you must first edit the \fBncakmod.conf\fR(4) file and set the status field to "disable," then reboot your system. 
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBstart\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Starts the \fBNCA\fR kernel module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBstop\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
Describes the current method for stopping the \fBNCA\fR feature.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRStarting and Stopping the NCA Feature
.sp
.LP
The following command is used to start the NCA feature:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/etc/init.d/ncakmod start\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/init.d/ncakmod\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
The NCA kernel module startup script.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/nca/ncakmod.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
Specifies configuration options for the NCA kernel module.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/network/http-cache-accelerator
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBncab2clf\fR(1), \fBncad_addr\fR(4), \fBnca.if\fR(4), \fBncakmod.conf\fR(4), \fBncalogd.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBnca\fR(7d)
