'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.TH optisa 1 "25 Jul 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
optisa \- determine which variant instruction set is optimal to use
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBoptisa\fR \fIinstruction_set\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBoptisa\fR prints which  \fIinstruction_set\fR out of the ones specified in the command will perform best on  this machine.  In this case, ``best'' is defined by the order  in which instruction set names are returned by  \fBisalist\fR(1). Possible values for \fIinstruction_set\fR are given in  \fBisalist\fR(5).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
.TE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
One of the  \fIinstruction_set\fR values you specified is printed by this command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
There is no output; that is, this machine cannot use any  \fIinstruction_set\fR that you specified with the \fBoptisa\fR command.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBisalist\fR(1), \fBuname\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBisalist\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBoptisa\fR is preferable to  \fBuname\fR \fB-p\fR or  \fBuname\fR \fB-m\fR (see \fBuname\fR(1)) in determining which of several binary versions of a given program  should be used on the given machine.
