'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH perl 1 "30 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
perl \- Practical Extraction and Report Language
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBperl\fR [\fB-sTuU\fR] [\fB-hv\fR] [\fB-V\fR [: \fIconfigvar\fR]] [\fB-cw\fR] 
     [\fB-d\fR [: \fIdebugger\fR]] [\fB-D\fR [\fInumber/list\fR]] [\fB-pna\fR] 
     [\fB-F\fR \fIpattern\fR] [\fB-l\fR [\fIoctal\fR]] [\fB-0\fR [\fIoctal\fR]] [\fB-I\fR \fIdir\fR] 
     [\fB-m\fR [\fB-\fR] \fImodule\fR] [\fB-M\fR [\fB-\fR] \fI\&'module...'\fR] [\fB-P\fR] [\fB-S\fR] 
     [\fB-x\fR [\fIdir\fR]] [\fB-i\fR [\fIextension\fR]] [\fB-e\fR \fI\&'command'\fR] [\fB--\fR] 
     [\fIprogramfile\fR] [\fIargument\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
For ease of access, the Perl manual has been split up into the following sections.
.sp
.LP
OVERVIEW
.sp
.in +2
.nf
perl                Perl overview (this section)
perlintro           Perl introduction for beginners
perltoc             Perl documentation table of contents
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
TUTORIALS
.SH TUTORIALS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlreftut          Perl references short introduction
perldsc             Perl data structures intro
perllol             Perl data structures: arrays of arrays
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlrequick         Perl regular expressions quick start
perlretut           Perl regular expressions tutorial
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlboot            Perl OO tutorial for beginners
perltoot            Perl OO tutorial, part 1
perltooc            Perl OO tutorial, part 2
perlbot             Perl OO tricks and examples
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlstyle           Perl style guide
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlcheat           Perl cheat sheet
perltrap            Perl traps for the unwary
perldebtut          Perl debugging tutorial
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlfaq             Perl frequently asked questions
perlfaq1          General Questions About Perl
perlfaq2          Obtaining and Learning about Perl
perlfaq3          Programming Tools
perlfaq4          Data Manipulation
perlfaq5          Files and Formats
perlfaq6          Regexes
perlfaq7          Perl Language Issues
perlfaq8          System Interaction
perlfaq9          Networking
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
REFERENCE MANUAL
.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlsyn             Perl syntax
perldata            Perl data structures
perlop              Perl operators and precedence
perlsub             Perl subroutines
perlfunc            Perl built-in functions
perlopentut         Perl open() tutorial
perlpacktut         Perl pack() and unpack() tutorial
perlpod             Perl plain old documentation
perlpodspec         Perl plain old documentation format specification
perlrun             Perl execution and options
perldiag            Perl diagnostic messages
perllexwarn         Perl warnings and their control
perldebug           Perl debugging
perlvar             Perl predefined variables
perlre              Perl regular expressions, the rest of the story
perlreref           Perl regular expressions quick reference
perlref             Perl references, the rest of the story
perlform            Perl formats
perlobj             Perl objects
perltie             Perl objects hidden behind simple variables
perldbmfilter       Perl DBM filters
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlipc             Perl interprocess communication
perlfork            Perl fork() information
perlnumber          Perl number semantics
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlthrtut          Perl threads tutorial
perlothrtut         Old Perl threads tutorial
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlport            Perl portability guide
perllocale          Perl locale support
perluniintro        Perl Unicode introduction
perlunicode         Perl Unicode support
perlebcdic          Considerations for running Perl on EBCDIC platforms
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlsec             Perl security
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlmod             Perl modules: how they work
perlmodlib          Perl modules: how to write and use
perlmodstyle        Perl modules: how to write modules with style
perlmodinstall      Perl modules: how to install from CPAN
perlnewmod          Perl modules: preparing a new module for distribution
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlutil            utilities packaged with the Perl distribution
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlcompile         Perl compiler suite intro
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlfilter          Perl source filters
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
INTERNALS AND C LANGUAGE INTERFACE
.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlembed           Perl ways to embed perl in your C or C++ application
perldebguts         Perl debugging guts and tips
perlxstut           Perl XS tutorial
perlxs              Perl XS application programming interface
perlclib            Internal replacements for standard C library functions
perlguts            Perl internal functions for those doing extensions
perlcall            Perl calling conventions from C
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlapi             Perl API listing (autogenerated)
perlintern          Perl internal functions (autogenerated)
perliol             C API for Perl's implementation of IO in Layers
perlapio            Perl internal IO abstraction interface
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlhack            Perl hackers guide
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
MISCELLANEOUS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlbook            Perl book information
perltodo            Perl things to do
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perldoc             Look up Perl documentation in Pod format
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlhist            Perl history records
perldelta           Perl changes since previous version
perl583delta        Perl changes in version 5.8.3
perl582delta        Perl changes in version 5.8.2
perl581delta        Perl changes in version 5.8.1
perl58delta         Perl changes in version 5.8.0
perl573delta        Perl changes in version 5.7.3
perl572delta        Perl changes in version 5.7.2
perl571delta        Perl changes in version 5.7.1
perl570delta        Perl changes in version 5.7.0
perl561delta        Perl changes in version 5.6.1
perl56delta         Perl changes in version 5.6
perl5005delta       Perl changes in version 5.005
perl5004delta       Perl changes in version 5.004
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlartistic        Perl Artistic License
perlgpl             GNU General Public License
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
LANGUAGE-SPECIFIC
.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlcn              Perl for Simplified Chinese (in EUC-CN)
perljp              Perl for Japanese (in EUC-JP)
perlko              Perl for Korean (in EUC-KR)
perltw              Perl for Traditional Chinese (in Big5)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
PLATFORM-SPECIFIC
.sp
.in +2
.nf
perlsolaris         Perl notes for Solaris
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH PLATFORM-SPECIFIC
.sp
.LP
If you're new to Perl, you should start with \fBperlintro\fR, which is a general intro for beginners and provides some background to help you navigate the rest of Perl's extensive documentation. For ease of access, the Perl manual has been split up into  several sections.
.sp
.LP
The manpages listed above are installed in the \fB/usr/perl5/man/\fR directory.
.sp
.LP
Extensive additional documentation for Perl modules is available.  This additional documentation is in the \fB/usr/perl5/man\fR directory. Some of this additional documentation is distributed standard with Perl, but you'll also find documentation for any customer-installed third-party modules there.
.sp
.LP
You can view Perl's documentation with \fBman\fR(1) by including \fB/usr/perl5/man\fR in the \fBMANPATH\fR environment variable.  Notice that running \fBcatman\fR(1M) on the Perl manual pages is not supported.  For other Solaris-specific details, see the \fBNOTES\fR section below.
.sp
.LP
You can also use the supplied \fB/usr/perl5/bin/perldoc\fR script to view Perl information.
.sp
.LP
If something strange has gone wrong with your program and you're not sure where you should look for help, try the \fB-w\fR switch first.  It will often point out exactly where the trouble is.
.sp
.LP
Perl is a language optimized for scanning arbitrary text files, extracting information from those text files, and printing reports based on that information.  It's also a good language for many system management tasks.  The language is intended to be practical (easy to use, efficient, complete) rather than beautiful (tiny, elegant, minimal).
.sp
.LP
Perl combines (in the author's opinion, anyway) some of the best features of C, \fBsed\fR, \fBawk\fR, and \fBsh\fR, so people familiar with those languages should have little difficulty with it.  (Language historians will also note some vestiges of \fBcsh\fR, Pascal, and even BASIC-PLUS.)  Expression syntax corresponds closely to C expression syntax.  Unlike most Unix utilities, Perl does not arbitrarily limit the size of your data -if you've got the memory, Perl can slurp in your whole file as a single string.  Recursion is of unlimited depth.  And the tables used by hashes (sometimes called "associative arrays") grow as necessary to prevent degraded performance.  Perl can use sophisticated pattern matching techniques to scan large amounts of data quickly.  Although optimized for scanning text, Perl can also deal with binary data, and can make dbm files look like hashes.  Setuid Perl scripts are safer than C programs through a dataflow tracing mechanism that prevents many stupid security holes.
.sp
.LP
If you have a problem that would ordinarily use \fBsed\fR or \fBawk\fR or \fBsh\fR, but it exceeds their capabilities or must run a little faster, and you don't want to write the silly thing in C, then Perl may be for you.  There are also translators to turn your \fBsed\fR and \fBawk\fR scripts into Perl scripts.
.sp
.LP
But wait, there's more...
.sp
.LP
Begun in 1993 (see \fBperlhist\fR), Perl version 5 is nearly a complete rewrite that provides the following additional benefits:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Modularity and reusability using innumerable modules  Described in perlmod, perlmodlib, and perlmodinstall.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Embeddable and extensible  Described in \fBperlembed\fR, \fBperlxstut\fR, \fBperlxs\fR, \fBperlcall\fR, \fBperlguts\fR, and \fBxsubpp\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Roll-your-own magic variables (including multiple simultaneous DBM implementations). Described in \fBperltie\fR and \fBAnyDBM_File\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Subroutines can now be overridden, autoloaded, and prototyped. Described in \fBperlsub\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Arbitrarily nested data structures and anonymous functions. Described in \fBperlreftut\fR, \fBperlref\fR, \fBperldsc\fR, and \fBperllol\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Object-oriented programming. Described in \fBperlobj\fR, \fBperlboot\fR, \fBperltoot\fR, \fBperltooc\fR, and \fBperlbot\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Support for light-weight processes (threads). Described in \fBperlthrtut\fR and \fBthreads\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Support for Unicode, internationalization, and localization Described in \fBperluniintro\fR, \fBperllocale\fR and \fBLocale::Maketext\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Lexical scoping. Described in \fBperlsub\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Regular expression enhancements. Described in \fBperlre\fR, with additional examples in \fBperlop\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Enhanced debugger and interactive Perl environment, with integrated editor support. Described in \fBperldebtut\fR, \fBperldebug\fR and \fBperldebguts\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
POSIX 1003.1 compliant library Described in POSIX.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Okay, that's \fIdefinitely\fR enough hype.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
The Perl shipped with Solaris is installed under \fB/usr/perl5\fR rather than the default \fB/usr/local\fR location. This is so that it can coexist with a customer-installed Perl in the default \fB/usr/local\fR location.
.sp
.LP
Any additional modules that you choose to install will be placed in the \fB/usr/perl5/site_perl/5.8.4\fR directory. The \fB/usr/perl5/vendor_perl\fR directory is reserved for SMI-provided modules.
.sp
.LP
Notice that the Perl utility scripts such as perldoc and perlbug are in the \fB/usr/perl5/bin\fR directory, so if you wish to use them you need to include \fB/usr/perl5/bin\fR in your PATH environment variable.
.sp
.LP
See also the \fBperlrun\fR mapage.
.SH AUTHOR
.sp
.LP
Larry Wall, with the help of oodles of other folks.
.sp
.LP
If your Perl success stories and testimonials may be of help to others  who wish to advocate the use of Perl in their applications,  or if you wish to simply express your gratitude to Larry and the  Perl developers, please write to \fBperl-thanks@perl.org\fR .
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB"@INC"\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Locations of Perl libraries
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilityT{
runtime/perl-584, runtime/perl-584/extra, runtime/perl-584/manual, SUNWpl5u, SUNWpl5v SUNWpl5p, SUNWpl5mSee below.
T}
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
Perl is available for most operating systems, including virtually all Unix-like platforms.  See "Supported Platforms" in \fBperlport\fR for a listing.
.sp
.LP
The Script interface, the XSUB interface, and the Directory layout are Committed. The Binary interface is Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBa2p\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
\fBawk\fR to \fBperl\fR translator
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBs2p\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
\fBsed\fR to \fBperl\fR translator
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBhttp://www.perl.com\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
Perl home page
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBhttp://www.perl.com/CPAN\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
The Comprehensive Perl Archive
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBhttp://www.perl.org\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
Perl Mongers (Perl user groups)
.RE

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
The \fB`use warnings'\fR pragma (and the \fB-w\fR switch) produce some  lovely diagnostics.
.sp
.LP
See \fBperldiag\fR for explanations of all Perl's diagnostics.  The \fB`use diagnostics'\fR pragma automatically turns Perl's normally terse warnings and errors into these longer forms.
.sp
.LP
Compilation errors will tell you the line number of the error, with an indication of the next token or token type that was to be examined. (In a script passed to Perl via \fB-e\fR switches, each \fB-e\fR is counted as one line.)
.sp
.LP
Setuid scripts have additional constraints that can produce error messages such as "Insecure dependency".  See perlsec.
.sp
.LP
Did we mention that you should definitely consider using the \fB-w\fR switch?
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Perl 5.8.4 has been built to be largefile-aware and  to  use 64-bit integers, although the interpreter itself is a 32-bit application (LP32).  To view detailed configuration information, use perl -V and perlbug -dv.
.sp
.LP
If you wish to build and install add-on modules from CPAN using gcc, you can do so using the /usr/perl5/5.8.4/bin/perlgcc script - see \f(CWperlgcc(1)\fR for details.
.sp
.LP
If you wish to build and install your own version of Perl, you should NOT remove the 5.8.4 version of perl under /usr/perl5, as it is required by several system utilities.  The Perl package names are as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
SUNWperl584core    Perl 5.8.4 (Core files)
SUNWperl584usr     Perl 5.8.4 (Non-core files)
SUNWperl584man     Perl 5.8.4 (Manual pages)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Solaris 10 also ships with the 5.6.1 version of Perl that was included in Solaris 9.  If you are upgrading your system and wish to continue to use Perl 5.6.1 as the default Perl version you should refer to the perlsolaris manpage for details of how to do this.  Note that you should upgrade your installation to use Perl 5.8.4 as soon as is practicable, as Perl 5.6.1 may be removed in a future release.
.sp
.LP
The Perl motto is "There's more than one way to do it."  Divining how many more is left as an exercise to the reader.
.sp
.LP
The three principal virtues of a programmer are Laziness, Impatience, and Hubris.  See the Camel Book for why.
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
The \fB-w\fR switch is not mandatory.
.sp
.LP
Perl is at the mercy of your machine's definitions of various operations such as type casting, \fBatof()\fR, and floating-point output with \fBsprintf()\fR.
.sp
.LP
If your stdio requires a seek or eof between reads and writes on a particular stream, so does Perl.  (This doesn't apply to \fBsysread()\fR and \fBsyswrite()\fR.)
.sp
.LP
While none of the built-in data types have any arbitrary size limits (apart from memory size), there are still a few arbitrary limits:  a given variable name may not be longer than 251 characters.  Line numbers displayed by diagnostics are internally stored as short integers, so they are limited to a maximum of 65535 (higher numbers usually being affected by wraparound).
.sp
.LP
You may mail your bug reports (be sure to include full configuration information as output by the myconfig program in the perl source tree, or by \fB`perl -V'\fR) to \fBperlbug@perl.org\fR .  If you've succeeded in compiling perl, the \fBperlbug\fR script in the \fButils/\fR subdirectory can be used to help mail in a bug report.
.sp
.LP
Perl actually stands for Pathologically Eclectic Rubbish Lister, but don't tell anyone I said that.
