'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH plabel 1 "20 Jul 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
plabel \- get the label of a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/plabel\fR [\fB-sS\fR] [\fIpid\fR...]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBplabel\fR, a proc tools command, gets the label of a process. If the \fIpid\fR is not specified, the label displayed is that of the \fBplabel\fR command. When options are not specified, the output format of the label is displayed in default format.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Display the label that is associated with \fIpid\fR in short form.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Display the label that is associated with \fIpid\fR in long form.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
\fBplabel\fR exits with one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Unsuccessful completion because of a usage error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Inability to translate label.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB3\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Inability to allocate memory.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/trusted
_
Interface StabilitySee below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The \fBplabel\fR utility is Committed. The output is Not-an-Interface.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBproc\fR(1), \fBgetplabel\fR(3TSOL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
