'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH rup 1 "6 Apr 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rup \- show host status of remote machines (RPC version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrup\fR [\fB-hlt\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrup\fR [\fIhost\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBrup\fR gives a status similar to \fBuptime\fR for remote machines. It broadcasts on the local network, and displays the responses it receives.
.sp
.LP
Normally, the listing is in the order that responses are received, but this order can be changed by specifying one of the options listed below.
.sp
.LP
When \fIhost\fR arguments are given, rather than broadcasting \fBrup\fR will only query the list of specified hosts.
.sp
.LP
A remote host will only respond if it is running the \fBrstatd\fR daemon, which is normally started up from \fBinetd\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
In the absence of a name service, such as LDAP or NIS, \fBrup\fR displays host names as numeric IP addresses.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Sort the display alphabetically by host name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Sort the display by load average.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Sort the display by up time.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
Availabilityservice/network/network-clients
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBruptime\fR(1), \fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIInstalling Oracle Solaris 11 Systems\fR
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
Broadcasting does not work through gateways.
