'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH rusers 1 "7 Mar 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rusers \- who is logged in on remote machines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrusers\fR [\fB-ahilu\fR] \fIhost\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBrusers\fR command produces output similar to \fBwho\fR(1), but for remote machines. The listing is in the order that responses are received, but this order can be changed by specifying one of the options listed below.
.sp
.LP
The default is to print out the names of the users logged in. When the \fB-l\fR flag is given, additional information is printed for each user:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIuserid hostname\fR\fB:\fR\fIterminal login_date login_time idle_time login_host\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If \fIhostname\fR and \fIlogin\fR \fIhost\fR are the same value, the \fIlogin_host\fR field is not displayed. Likewise, if \fIhostname\fR is not idle, the \fIidle_time\fR is not displayed.
.sp
.LP
A remote host will only respond if it is running the \fBrusersd\fR daemon, which may be started up from \fBinetd\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
In the absence of a name service, such as LDAP or NIS, \fBrusers\fR displays host names as numeric IP addresses.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Give a report for a machine even if no users are logged on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Sort alphabetically by host name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Sort by idle time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Give a longer listing in the style of \fBwho\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Sort by number of users.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/network/network-clients
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBwho\fR(1), \fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
