'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH rwho 1 "6 Nov 2000" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rwho \- who is logged in on local machines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrwho\fR [\fB-a\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBrwho\fR command produces output similar to \fBwho\fR(1), but for all machines on your network.  If no report has been received from a machine for 5 minutes, \fBrwho\fR assumes the machine is down, and does not report users last known to be logged into that machine.
.sp
.LP
If a user has not typed to the system for a minute or more, \fBrwho\fR reports this idle time.  If a user has not typed to the system for an hour or more, the user is omitted from the output of \fBrwho\fR unless the \fB-a\fR flag is given.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Report all users whether or not they have typed to the system in the past hour.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool/rwho/whod.*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
information about other machines
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i) 
.
\fBATTRIBUTE TYPE\fR\fBATTRIBUTE VALUE\fR
Availabilityservice/network/network-servers
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfinger\fR(1), \fBruptime\fR(1), \fBwho\fR(1), \fBin.rwhod\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBrwho\fR does not work through gateways.
.sp
.LP
The directory \fB/var/spool/rwho\fR must exist on the host from which \fBrwho\fR is run.
.sp
.LP
This service takes up progressively more network bandwith as the number of hosts on the local net increases. For large networks, the cost becomes prohibitive.
.sp
.LP
The \fBrwho\fR service daemon, \fBin.rwhod\fR(1M), must be enabled for this command to return useful results.
