'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH script 1 "30 Jan 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
script \- make record of a terminal session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBscript\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBscript\fR utility makes a record of everything printed on your screen. The record is written to \fIfilename\fR. If no file name is given, the record is saved in the file \fBtypescript\fR. See WARNINGS.
.sp
.LP
The \fBscript\fR command forks and creates a sub-shell, according to the value of \fB$SHELL\fR, and records the text from this session. The script ends when the forked shell exits or when Control-d is typed.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Appends the session record to \fIfilename\fR, rather than overwriting it.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBscript\fR places everything that appears on the screen in \fIfilename\fR, including prompts.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
\fBscript\fR can pose a security risk when used in directories that are writable by other users (for example, \fB/tmp\fR), especially when run by a privileged user, that is, root. Be sure that \fBtypescript\fR is not a link before running \fBscript\fR.
