'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH sum 1 "28 Jul 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sum \- print checksum and block count for a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/sum\fR [-r] [\fIfile\fR...]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsum\fR lists the checksum for each of its file arguments. The standard input is read if there are no file arguments.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Use an alternate (machine-dependent) algorithm in computing the checksum.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
A path name of a file. If no files are named, the standard input is used.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBsum\fR when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (2^31 bytes).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the execution of \fBsum\fR: \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
CSIEnabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcksum\fR(1), \fBgetconf\fR(1), \fBsum\fR(1B), \fBwc\fR(1), \fBlibmd\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
\fBRead error\fR is indistinguishable from end of file on most devices. Check the block count.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Portable applications should use \fBcksum\fR(1). The default algorithm for this command is defined in the POSIX standard and is identical across platforms.
.sp
.LP
\fBsum\fR and \fBusr/ucb/sum\fR (see \fBsum\fR(1B)) return different checksums.
