'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T 
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH tee 1 "28 Jul 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tee \- replicate the standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/tee\fR [\fB-ai\fR] [\fIfile\fR...]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBtee\fR copies standard input to standard output and to zero or more files. The options determine whether the specified files are overwritten or appended to. The tee utility does not buffer output. If a write to a file fails, \fBtee\fR continues to write to other files although it exits with a non-zero exit status.
.sp
.LP
The number of \fIfile\fR operands that can be specified is limited by the underlying operating system.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Appends the output to the files rather than overwriting them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Ignores interrupts.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
A path name of an output file.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBtee\fR when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (2^31 bytes).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the execution of \fBtee\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Successful completion. The standard input was successfully copied to all output files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
An error occurred. The number of files that could not be opened or whose status could not be obtained.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcat\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
