'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.TH times 1 "15 Apr 1994" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
times \- shell built-in function to report time usages of the current shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "sh"
.LP
.nf
\fBtimes\fR 
.fi

.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fBtimes\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "sh"
.sp
.LP
Print the accumulated user and system times for processes run from the shell.
.SS "ksh"
.sp
.LP
Print the accumulated user and system times for the shell and for processes run from the shell.
.sp
.LP
On this man page, \fBksh\fR(1) commands that are preceded by one or two * (asterisks) are treated specially in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
I/O redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
Words, following a command preceded by ** that are in the format of a variable assignment, are expanded with the same rules as a variable assignment. This means that tilde substitution is performed after the \fB=\fR sign and word splitting and file name generation are not performed.
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBksh\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBtime\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
