'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH troff 1 "17 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
troff \- typeset or format documents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtroff\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-F\fR\fIdir\fR] [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-m\fR\fIname\fR] [\fB-n\fR\fIN\fR] [\fB-o\fR\fIlist\fR] [\fB-r\fR\fIaN\fR] 
     [\fB-s\fR\fIN\fR] [\fB-u\fR\fIN\fR] [\fB-z\fR] [\fIfilename\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBtroff\fR formats text in the \fIfilename\fRs for typesetting or laser printing. Input to \fBtroff\fR is expected to consist of text interspersed with formatting requests and macros. If no \fIfilename\fR argument is present, \fBtroff\fR reads standard input. A minus sign (\(mi) as a \fIfilename\fR indicates that standard input should be read at that point in the list of input files.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported. They may appear in any order, but all must appear before the first \fIfilename\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Send an \fBASCII\fR approximation of formatted output to standard output. (Note: a rough \fBASCII\fR version can also be printed out on ordinary terminals with an old and rarely used command, \fB/usr/bin/ta\fR.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Do not print a trailer after the final page of output or cause the postprocessor to relinquish control of the device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fIdir\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Search directory \fIdir\fR for font width or terminal tables instead of the system default directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Read standard input after all input files are exhausted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Prepend the macro file \fB/usr/share/lib/tmac/\fR\fIname\fR to the input \fIfilename\fRs. Note: most references to macro packages include the leading \fIm\fR as part of the name; for example, the \fBman\fR(5) macros reside in \fB/usr/share/lib/tmac/an\fR. The macro directory can be changed by setting the \fBTROFFMACS\fR environment variable to a specific path. Be certain to include the trailing '\|/\|' (slash) at the end of the path.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Number the first generated page \fIN\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fIlist\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Print only pages whose page numbers appear in the comma-separated \fIlist\fR of numbers and ranges.  A range \fIN\fR\fB\(mi\fR\fIM\fR means pages \fIN\fR through \fIM\fR; an initial \fB\(mi\fR\fIN\fR means from the beginning to page \fIN\fR; and a final \fIN\fR\fB\(mi\fR means from \fIN\fR to the end.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Quiet mode in \fBnroff\fR; ignored in \fBtroff\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fIaN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Set register \fIa\fR (one-character names only) to \fIN\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Stop the phototypesetter every \fIN\fR pages. On some devices, \fBtroff\fR produces a trailer so you can change cassettes; resume by pressing the typesetter's start button.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Set the emboldening factor for the font mounted in position 3 to \fIN\fR. If \fIN\fR is missing, then set the emboldening factor to 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Suppress formatted output. Only diagnostic messages and messages output using the \fB\&.tm\fR request are output.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The file containing text to be processed by \fBtroff\fR.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/tmp/trtmp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
temporary file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/tmac/*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
standard macro files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/font/*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
font width tables for alternate mounted \fBtroff\fR fonts
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/nterm/*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
.rt  
terminal driving tables for \fBnroff\fR
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitytext/doctools
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBchecknr\fR(1), \fBcol\fR(1), \fBeqn\fR(1), \fBman\fR(1), \fBnroff\fR(1), \fBtbl\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBman\fR(5), \fBme\fR(5), \fBms\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBtroff\fR is not 8-bit clean because it is by design based on 7-bit \fBASCII.\fR
.sp
.LP
Previous documentation incorrectly described the numeric register \fByr\fR as being the \fBLast two digits of current year\fR. \fByr\fR is in actuality the number of years since 1900. To correctly obtain the last two digits of the current year through the year 2099, the definition given below of string register \fByy\fR may be included in a document and subsequently used to display a two-digit year. Note that any other available one- or two-character register name may be substituted for \fByy\fR.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\&.\e" definition of new string register yy--last two digits of year
\&.\e" use yr (# of years since 1900) if it is < 100
\&.ie \en(yr<100 .ds yy \en(yr
\&.el \e{             .\e" else, subtract 100 from yr, store in ny
\&.nr ny \en(yr-100
\&.ie \en(ny>9 \e{     .\e" use ny if it is two digits
\&.ds yy \en(ny
\&.\e" remove temporary number register ny
\&.rr ny \e}
\&.el \e{.ds yy 0
\&.\e" if ny is one digit, append it to 0
\&.as yy \en(ny
\&.rr ny \e} \e}
.fi
.in -2

