'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH tty 1 "28 Jul 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tty \- return user's terminal name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/tty\fR [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-s\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBtty\fR utility writes to the standard output the name of the terminal that is open as standard input. The name that is used is equivalent to the string that would be returned by the \fBttyname\fR(3C) function.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Prints the synchronous line number to which the user's terminal is connected, if it is on an active synchronous line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Inhibits printing of the terminal path name, allowing one to test just the exit status.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the execution of  \fBtty\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR,  \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR,  and \fBNLSPATH\fR. 
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Standard input is a terminal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Standard input is not a terminal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
Standard\fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBisatty\fR(3C), \fBttyname\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnot on an active synchronous line\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The standard input is not a synchronous terminal and \fB-l\fR is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnot a tty\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The standard input is not a terminal and \fB-s\fR is not specified.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fB-s\fR option is useful only if the exit status is wanted. It does not rely on the ability to form a valid path name. Portable applications should use \fBtest\fR \fB-t\fR.
