'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.TH typeset 1 "12 Jul 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
typeset, whence \- shell built-in functions to set/get attributes and values for shell variables and functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtypeset\fR [ -CDHLRZfilrtux [\fIn\fR]] [\fIname\fR[=\fIvalue\fR]]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBwhence\fR [\fB-pv\fR] \fIname\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBtypeset\fR sets attributes and values for shell variables and functions. When \fBtypeset\fR is invoked inside a function, a new instance of the variables \fIname\fR is created. The variables \fIvalue\fR and \fBtype\fR are restored when the function completes. The following list of attributes is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Compound variable. Each name is a compound variable. If \fIvalue\fR names a compound variable it is copied to \fIname\fR. Otherwise if the variable already exists, it is first to be unset
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Reserved for future use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-H\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Provide UNIX to hostname file mapping on non-UNIX machines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Left justify and remove leading blanks from value. If \fIn\fR is \fBnon-zero\fR it defines the width of the field. Otherwise, it is determined by the width of the value of first assignment. When the variable is assigned to, it is filled on the right with blanks or truncated, if necessary, to fit into the field. Leading zeros are removed if the \fB-Z\fR flag is also set. The \fB-R\fR flag is turned off.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Right justify and fill with leading blanks. If \fIn\fR is \fBnon-zero\fR it defines the width of the field, otherwise it is determined by the width of the value of first assignment. The field is left filled with blanks or truncated from the end if the variable is reassigned. The \fB-L\fR flag is turned off.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-Z\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Right justify and fill with leading zeros if the first non-blank character is a digit and the \fB-L\fR flag has not been set. If \fIn\fR is \fBnon-zero\fR it defines the width of the field. Otherwise, it is determined by the width of the value of first assignment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
All uppercase characters are converted to lowercase. The uppercase flag, \fB-u\fR is turned off.
.sp
The \fBFPATH\fR variable is searched to find the function definition when the function is referenced. The flag \fB-x\fR allows the function definition to remain in effect across shell procedures invoked by name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Parameter is an integer. This makes arithmetic faster. If \fIn\fR is \fBnon-zero\fR it defines the output arithmetic base. Otherwise, the first assignment determines the output base.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
All uppercase characters  are  converted  to  lowercase. The uppercase flag, \fB-u\fR is turned off. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Move. The value is the name of a variable whose value is moved to name. The original variable is unset. Cannot be used with any other options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
The specified names are marked read-only and these names cannot be changed by subsequent assignment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Tags the variables. Tags are user definable and have no special meaning to the shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
All lowercase characters are converted to uppercase characters. The lowercase flag, \fB-l\fR is turned off.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
The specified names are marked for automatic export to the environment of subsequently-executed commands.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBi\fR attribute can not be specified along with -\fB-R\fR, \fB-L\fR, \fB-Z\fR, or \fB-f\fR.
.sp
.LP
Using \fB+\fR rather than \fB-\fR causes these flags to be turned off. If no name arguments are specified but flags are specified, a list of names (and optionally the values) of the variables which have these flags set is printed. Using \fB+\fR rather than \fB-\fR keeps the values from being printed. If no names and flags are specified, the names and attributes of all variables are printed.
.sp
.LP
For each name, whence indicates how it would be interpreted if used as a command name.
.sp
.LP
The \fB-v\fR flag produces a more verbose report.
.sp
.LP
The \fB-p\fR flag does a path search for \fIname\fR even if \fIname\fR  is an alias, a function, or a reserved word.  
.sp
.LP
On this manual page, \fBksh\fR(1) commands that are preceded by one or two \fB*\fR (asterisks) are treated specially in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
I/O redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
Words, following a command preceded by \fB**\fR that are in the format of a variable assignment, are expanded with the same rules as a variable assignment. This means that tilde substitution is performed after the \fB=\fR sign and word splitting and file name generation are not performed.
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBksh\fR(1), \fBksh88\fR(1), \fBset\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
