'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH updatehome 1 "15 Oct 2010" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
updatehome \- update the home directory copy and link files for the current label
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/updatehome\fR [\fB-cirs\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBupdatehome\fR reads the user's minimum-label copy and link-control files (\fB\&.copy_files\fR and \fB\&.link_files\fR). These files contain a list of files to be copied and symbolically linked from the user's minimum-label home directory to the user's home directory at the current label.
.sp
.LP
By  default, the minimum user label is specified in \fBlabel_encodings\fR(4), and can be explicitly specified in \fBuser_attr\fR(4). When created using \fBtxzonemgr\fR(1M), the public zone is assigned the default minimum label, and is configured as a multilevel NFS server. An authorized administrator in the public zone can use the \fBshare\fR(1M) command to export home directories, so that they can be mounted in read-only mode by higher-level zones. Additional zones created by means of \fBtxzonemgr\fR(1M) are configured with an \fBautomount\fR(1M) entry that mounts the public zone's home directories at \fB/zone/public/home\fR.
.sp
.LP
If the user's minimum home directory has been shared in this fashion, a user can run the \fBupdatehome\fR command in higher-level zones, either manually or by executing it in a startup file. For example, the user probably wants a symbolic link to such files as \fB\&.profile\fR, \fB\&.login\fR, \fB\&.cshrc\fR, \fB\&.exrc\fR, \fB\&.mailrc\fR, and \fB~/bin\fR. The \fBupdatehome\fR command provides a convenient mechanism for accomplishing this symlink. The user can add files to those to be copied (\fB\&.copy_files\fR) and to those to be symbolically linked (\fB\&.link_files\fR).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Replace existing home-directory copies at the current label. The default is to skip over existing copies.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Ignore errors encountered. The default aborts on error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Replace existing home-directory copies or symbolic links at the current label. This option implies options \fB-c\fR and \fB-s\fR. The default is to skip over existing copies or symbolic links.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Replace existing home-directory symbolic links at the current label. The default is to skip over existing symbolic links.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
Upon success, \fBupdatehome\fR returns \fB0\fR. Upon failure, \fBupdatehome\fR returns \fB1\fR and writes diagnostic messages to standard error.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRA Sample \fB\&.copy_files\fR File
.sp
.LP
The files that are listed in \fB\&.copy_files\fR can be modified at every user's label.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\&.cshrc 
\&.mailrc 
\&.mozilla/bookmarks.html
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRA Sample \fB\&.link_files\fR File
.sp
.LP
The files that are listed in \fB\&.link_files\fR can be modified at the lowest label. The changes propagate to the other labels that are available to the user.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
~/bin
\&.mozilla/preferences
\&.xrc
\&.rhosts
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRUpdating the Linked and Copied Files
.sp
.LP
The \fB\&.copy_files\fR and \fB\&.link_files\fR were updated by the user at the minimum label. At a higher label, the user refreshes the copies and the links. No privileges are required to run the command.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBupdatehome -r\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.copy_files\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
List of files to be copied
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.link_files\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
List of files to be symbolically linked
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/trusted
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBautomount\fR(1M), \fBshare\fR(1M), \fBtxzonemgr\fR(1M), \fBlabel_encodings\fR(4), \fBuser_attr\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fI\&.copy_files and .link_files Files\fR in \fIOracle Solaris Trusted Extensions Configuration and Administration\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
