'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH volcheck 1 "15 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
volcheck \- checks for media in a drive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBvolcheck\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIsecs\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIsecs\fR] \fIpathname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBvolcheck\fR utility tells volume management to look at each \fBdev/\fR\fIpathname\fR in sequence and determine if new media has been inserted in the drive.
.sp
.LP
The default action is to \fBvolcheck\fR all checkable media managed by volume management.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIsecs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Set the frequency of device checking to \fIsecs\fR seconds.  The default is 2 seconds.  The minimum frequency is 1 second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fIsecs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Check the named device(s) for the next \fIsecs\fR seconds.  The maximum number of seconds allowed is 28800, which is 8 hours. The frequency of checking is specified by \fB-i\fR. There is no default total time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Verbose.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The path name of a media device.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/volctl\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
volume management control port
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/storage/media-volume-manager
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBeject\fR(1), \fBrmmount\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
