'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2000, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH volrmmount 1 "15 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
volrmmount \- call rmmount to mount or unmount media
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBvolrmmount\fR [\fB-i\fR | \fB-e\fR] [\fIname\fR | \fInickname\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvolrmmount\fR [\fB-d\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBvolrmmount\fR utility calls \fBrmmount\fR(1M) to, in effect, simulate an insertion (\fB-i\fR) or an ejection (\fB-e\fR). Simulating an insertion often means that \fBrmmount\fR will mount the media. Conversely, simulating an ejection often means that \fBrmmount\fR will unmount the media. However, these actions can vary depending on the \fBrmmount\fR configuration and media type.
.sp
.LP
For example, using default settings, if you insert a music CD, it might not be mounted. However, you can configure \fBrmmount\fR so that it calls \fBworkman\fR whenever a music CD is inserted.
.sp
.LP
The \fBvolrmmount\fR utility  allows you to override volume management's usual handling of media.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Simulates an insertion of the specified media by calling \fBrmmount\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Simulates an ejection of the specified media by calling \fBrmmount\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Displays the name of the default device for \fBvolrmmount\fR to handle. This device is used if no \fIname\fR or \fInickname\fR is supplied.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The name that volume management recognizes as the device's name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fInickname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
A shortened version of the device's name. Following is the list of recognized nicknames:
.RE

.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
NicknamePath
_
cdrom0/dev/rdsk/cXtYdZ/\fIlabel\fR
_
zip0/dev/rdsk/cXtYdZ/\fIlabel\fR
_
jaz0/dev/rdsk/cXtYdZ/\fIlabel\fR
_
rmdisk0/dev/rdsk/cXtYdZ/\fIlabel\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/volctl\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
.rt  
volume management control port
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/storage/media-volume-manager
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcpio\fR(1), \fBeject\fR(1), \fBtar\fR(1), \fBrmmount\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
