'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH drd 1M "10 Jul 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
drd \- Logical Domain Dynamic Reconfiguration daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/ldoms/drd\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdrd\fR daemon is part of the framework that enables the addition and removal of resources from a Logical Domain. This framework is collectively called Dynamic Reconfiguration (DR).
.sp
.LP
\fBdrd\fR is responsible for various aspects of DR on a Logical Domain and must be enabled to ensure proper DR functionality. It is started at boot time and has no configuration options.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/ldoms
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBsyslog\fR(3C), \fBsyslog.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBdrd\fR uses \fBsyslog\fR(3C) to report status and error messages. All of the messages are logged with the \fBLOG_DAEMON\fR facility. Error messages are logged with the \fBLOG_ERR\fR and \fBLOG_NOTICE\fR priorities, and informational messages are logged with the \fBLOG_INFO\fR priority. The default entries in the \fB/etc/syslog.conf\fR file log all the \fBdrd\fR error messages to the \fB/var/adm/messages\fR log.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBdrd\fR service is managed by the service management facility, \fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/platform/sun4v/drd:default
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
