'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH efdaemon 1M "10 Aug 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
efdaemon \- embedded FCode interpreter daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/efcode/sparcv9/efdaemon\fR [\fB-d\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBefdaemon\fR, the embedded \fBFCode\fR interpreter daemon, invokes the embedded \fBFCode\fR interpreter when the daemon receives an interpretation request. A new session of the interpreter is started for each unique request by invoking the script \fB/usr/lib/efcode/efcode\fR. 
.sp
.LP
\fBefdaemon\fR is used on selected platforms as part of the processing of some dynamic reconfiguration events.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Set debug output. Log debug messages as \fBLOG_DEBUG\fR level messages by using \fBsyslog()\fR. See \fBsyslog\fR(3C).
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/fcode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBFCode\fR interpreter pseudo device, which is a portal for receipt of \fBFCode\fR interpretation requests
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/efcode/efcode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Shell script that invokes the embedded \fBFCode\fR interpreter
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/efcode/interpreter\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Embedded \fBFCode\fR interpreter
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/efcode/sparcv9/interpreter\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Embedded \fBFCode\fR interpreter
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilityT{
SUNWefcx, SUNWefcux, system/embedded-fcode-interpreter, SUNWefclx
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBprtconf\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBsyslog\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBefdaemon\fR service is managed by the service management facility, \fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/platform/sun4u/efdaemon:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
