'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH sckmd 1M "25 Apr 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
sckmd \- Sun cryptographic key management daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/platform/sun4u/lib/sckmd\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBsckmd\fR is a server process that resides on a high-end system domain to maintain the Internet Protocol Security (\fBIPsec\fR) Security Associations (\fBSAs\fR) needed to secure communications between a Service Processor or System Controller (SC) and platform management software running within a domain. The \fBcvcd\fR(1M) and \fBdcs\fR(1M) daemons use these Security Associations. See \fBipsec\fR(7P) for a description of Security Associations.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsckmd\fR daemon receives \fBSA\fRs from the Service Processor or \fBSC\fR and installs these \fBSA\fRs in a domain's Security Association Database (\fBSADB\fR) using \fBpf_key\fR(7P).
.sp
.LP
\fBsckmd\fR starts up at system boot time as an \fBSMF\fR service. The \fBFMRI\fR for the \fBsckmd\fR service is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/platform/sun4u/sckmd:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
A domain supports only one running \fBsckmd\fR process at a time.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilityT{
SUNWsckmx.u, service/key-management/sun-fire-15000
T}
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcvcd\fR(1M), \fBdcs\fR(1M), \fBipsecconf\fR(1M), \fBipsecalgs\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBipsec\fR(7P), \fBipsecah\fR(7P), \fBipsecesp\fR(7P), \fBpf_key\fR(7P)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBsckmd\fR service is used only on Sun Fire high-end systems and the \fBSPARC\fR Enterprise Server family. It provides a mechanism for exchanging \fBIPsec\fR keys between a domain and its System Controller (\fBSC\fR) or Service Processor. These platforms use \fBIPsec\fR to secure the communications between the \fBSC\fR or Service Processor and certain platform-specific daemons in the domain. Such daemons currently include \fBcvcd\fR(1M) and \fBdcs\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
The documentation for each platform that supports \fBsckmd\fR describes how to configure its use of \fBIPsec\fR for such communications. Also, the documentation for each specific application describes how to configure its security policies and \fBIPsec\fR options in a manner appropriate for the target platform. Refer to the platform- and application-specific documentation for detailed information.
