'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH slp_strerror 3SLP "16 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Location Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
slp_strerror \- map SLP error codes to messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <slp.h>

\fBconst char*\fR \fBslp_strerror\fR(\fBSLPError\fR \fIerr_code\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBslp_strerror()\fR function maps \fBerr_code\fR to a string explanation of the error. The returned string is owned by the library and must not be freed.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIerr_code\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
An \fBSLP\fR error code. 
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any \fBSLP\fR error code. See the ERRORS section in \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBslp_sterror()\fR
.sp
.LP
The following example returns the message that corresponds to the error code:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
SLPError error;
const char* msg;
msg = slp_streerror(err);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSLP_CONF_FILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/network/slp
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBslpd\fR(1M), \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP), \fBslp.conf\fR(4), \fBslpd.reg\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIOracle Solaris Administration: Network Services\fR
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E. \fIRFC 2614, An API for Service Location\fR. The Internet Society. June 1999.
