'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH SLPClose 3SLP "16 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Location Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
SLPClose \- close an open SLP handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lslp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <slp.h>

\fBvoid\fR  \fBSLPClose\fR(\fBSLPHandle\fR \fIphSLP\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBSLPClose()\fR function frees all  resources associated with the handle. If the handle is invalid, the function returns silently. Any outstanding synchronous or asynchronous operations are cancelled, so that their callback functions  will not be called any further
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIphSLP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
An \fBSLPHandle\fR handle returned from a call to \fBSPLOpen()\fR.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any \fBSLP\fR error code. See the ERRORS section in \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBSLPClose()\fR
.sp
.LP
The following example will free all resources associated the handle:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
SLPHandle hslp
     SLPCLose(hslp);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSLP_CONF_FILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/network/slp
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBslpd\fR(1M), \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP), \fBslp.conf\fR(4), \fBslpd.reg\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIOracle Solaris Administration: Network Services\fR
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E. \fIRFC 2614, An API for Service Location\fR. The Internet Society. June 1999.
