'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH SLPGetRefreshInterval 3SLP "16 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Location Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
SLPGetRefreshInterval \- return the maximum allowed refresh interval
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lslp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]#include <slp.h>

\fBint\fR \fBSLPGetRefreshInterval\fR(void)
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBSLPGetRefreshInterval()\fR function returns the maximum across all \fBDA\fRs of the \fBmin-refresh-interval\fR attribute.  This value satisfies the advertised refresh interval bounds for all \fBDA\fRs. If this value is used by the \fBSA\fR, it assures that no refresh registration will be rejected.  If no \fBDA\fR advertises a \fBmin-refresh-interval\fR attribute, a value of \fB0\fR is returned. If an error occurs,  an \fBSLP\fR error code is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any \fBSLP\fR error code. See the ERRORS section in \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBSLPGetRefreshInterval()\fR
.sp
.LP
Use the following example to return the maximum valid refresh interval for \fBSA\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
int minrefresh

minrefresh = SLPGetRefreshInterval(\|);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSLP_CONF_FILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/network/slp
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBslpd\fR(1M), \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP), \fBslp.conf\fR(4), \fBslpd.reg\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIOracle Solaris Administration: Network Services\fR
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E. \fIRFC 2614, An API for Service Location\fR. The Internet Society. June 1999.
