'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH SLPGetProperty 3SLP "16 Jan 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Location Protocol Library Functions"
.SH NAME
SLPGetProperty \- return SLP configuration property
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lslp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <slp.h>

\fBconst char*\fR \fBSLPGetProperty\fR(\fBconst char*\fR \fIpcName\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBSLPGetProperty()\fR function returns the value of the  corresponding \fBSLP\fR  property  name,  or \fINULL\fR,  if  none.   If  there is no  error,  \fBSLPGetProperty()\fR returns  a  pointer to the  property value.  If  the property  was not set, it returns  the empty string,  \fB""\fR.  If an  error  occurs, \fBSLPGetProperty()\fR returns \fINULL\fR.  The returned string should not  be freed.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpcName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
A null-terminated  string with the property name.   \fIpcName\fR cannot  be \fINULL\fR. 
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any \fBSLP\fR error code. See the ERRORS section in \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBSLPGetProperty()\fR
.sp
.LP
Use the following example to return a list of configured scopes:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
const char* useScopes

useScopes = SLPGetProperty("net.slp.useScopes");
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSLP_CONF_FILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/network/slp
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBslpd\fR(1M), \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP), \fBslp.conf\fR(4), \fBslpd.reg\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIOracle Solaris Administration: Network Services\fR
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E. \fIRFC 2614, An API for Service Location\fR. The Internet Society. June 1999.
