'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH acctmerg 1M "16 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
acctmerg \- merge or add total accounting files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/acct/acctmerg\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-u\fR] [\fB-v\fR] 
     [\fIfilename\fR] ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBacctmerg\fR reads its standard input and up to nine additional files, all in the \fBtacct\fR format (see \fBacct.h\fR(3HEAD)) or an \fBASCII\fR version thereof. It merges these inputs by adding records whose keys (normally user \fBID\fR and name) are identical, and expects the inputs to be sorted on those keys.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Produce output in \fBASCII\fR version of \fBtacct\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Produce input in \fBASCII\fR version of \fBtacct\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Print input with no processing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Produce a single record that totals all input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Summarize by user \fBID,\fR rather than by user \fBID\fR and name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Produce output in verbose \fBASCII\fR format, with more precise notation for floating-point numbers.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing the \fBacctmerg\fR command.
.sp
.LP
The following sequence is useful for making "repairs" to any file kept in this format:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% acctmerg \|\|\fB-v\fR \|<\fIfilename1\fR\fB\|>\fR\fIfilename2\fR 
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Edit \fIfilename2\fR as you want:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% acctmerg \|\|\fR\fB-i\fR\fB \|\fR\fI<filename2\fR\fB\|>\fR\fIfilename1\fR 
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/accounting/legacy-accounting
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBacctcom\fR(1), \fBacct\fR(1M), \fBacctcms\fR(1M), \fBacctcon\fR(1M), \fBacctprc\fR(1M), \fBacctsh\fR(1M), \fBfwtmp\fR(1M), \fBrunacct\fR(1M), \fBacct\fR(2), \fBacct.h\fR(3HEAD), \fButmpx\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5) 
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
