'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH audit_warn 1M "3 Mar 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
audit_warn \- audit daemon warning script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/security/audit_warn\fR [\fIoption\fR [\fIarguments\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudit_warn\fR utility processes warning or error messages from the audit daemon. When a problem is encountered, the audit daemon, \fBauditd\fR(1M) calls \fBaudit_warn\fR with the appropriate arguments. The \fIoption\fR argument specifies the error type.
.sp
.LP
The system administrator can specify a list of mail recipients to be notified when an audit_warn situation arises by defining a mail alias called \fBaudit_warn\fR in \fBaliases\fR(4). The users that make up the \fBaudit_warn\fR alias are typically the \fBaudit\fR and \fBroot\fR users.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported: 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBallhard\fR \fIcount\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the hard limit for all filesystems has been exceeded \fIcount\fR times. The default action for this option is to send mail to the \fBaudit_warn\fR alias only if the \fIcount\fR is \fB1\fR, and to write a message to the machine console every time. It is recommended that mail \fInot\fR be sent every time as this could result in a the saturation of the file system that contains the mail spool directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBallsoft\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the soft limit for all filesystems has been exceeded. The default action for this option is to send mail to the \fBaudit_warn\fR alias and to write a message to the machine console.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBauditoff\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that someone other than the audit daemon changed the system audit state to something other than \fB\fR\fBAUC_AUDITING\fR\fB\&. \fR The audit daemon will have exited in this case. The default action for this option is to send mail to the \fBaudit_warn\fR alias and to write a message to the machine console.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBebusy\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the audit daemon is already running. The default action for this option is to send mail to the \fBaudit_warn\fR alias and to write a message to the machine console.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBhard\fR \fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the hard limit for the file has been exceeded. The default action for this option is to send mail to the \fBaudit_warn\fR alias and to write a message to the machine console.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBhostname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the audit service could not find an IP address to associate with the local hostname. It has fallen back to using the "loopback" address. The audit trail might not translate properly. See \fB/var/audit/debug\fR for more information. The audit service can be refreshed (\fBaudit\fR \fB-s\fR) to retry to find an IP address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnostart\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that auditing could not be started. The default action for this option is to send mail to the \fBaudit_warn\fR alias and to write a message to the machine console. Some administrators may prefer to modify \fBaudit_warn\fR to reboot the system when this error occurs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBplugin\fR \fIname\fR \fIerror\fR \fIcount\fR \fItext\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that an error occurred during execution of the \fBauditd\fR plugin \fIname\fR. The default action for this option is to send mail to the \fBaudit_warn\fR alias only if \fIcount\fR is 1, and to write a message to the machine console every time. (Separate counts are kept for each error type.) It is recommended that mail not be sent every time as this could result in the saturation of the file system that contains the mail spool directory. The \fItext\fR field provides the detailed error message passed from the plug-in. The \fIerror\fR field is one of the following strings:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBload_error\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Unable to load the plugin \fIname\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsys_error\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
The plugin \fIname\fR is not executing due to a system error such as a lack of resources.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBconfig_error\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
No plug-ins loaded (including the binary file plug-in, \fBaudit_binfile\fR(5)) due to configuration errors (see the \fB-setplugin\fR option of the \fBauditconfig\fR(1M) command). The name string is \fB--\fR , to indicate that no plug-in name applies.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBretry\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
The plugin \fIname\fR reports it has encountered a temporary failure. For example, the \fBaudit_binfree.so\fR plugin uses \fBretry\fR to indicate that all directories are full.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBno_memory\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
The plugin \fIname\fR reports a failure due to lack of memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBinvalid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
The plugin \fIname\fR reports it received an invalid input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBfailure\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
The plugin \fIname\fR has reported an error as described in \fItext\fR.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpostsigterm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that an error occurred during the orderly shutdown of the audit daemon. The default action for this option is to send mail to the \fBaudit_warn\fR alias and to write a message to the machine console.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsoft\fR \fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the soft limit for \fIfilename\fR has been exceeded. The default action for this option is to send mail to the \fBaudit_warn\fR alias and to write a message to the machine console.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtmpfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the temporary audit file already exists indicating a fatal error. The default action for this option is to send mail to the \fBaudit_warn\fR alias and to write a message to the machine console.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.sp
.LP
The interface stability is Evolving. The file content is Unstable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBaudit\fR(1M), \fBauditconfig\fR(1M), \fBauditd\fR(1M), \fBaliases\fR(4), \fBaudit.log\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
See the section on Solaris Auditing in \fISystem Administration Guide: Security Services\fR.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
This functionality is available only if the Solaris Auditing feature has been enabled.
.sp
.LP
If the audit policy \fBperzone\fR is set, the \fB/etc/security/audit_warn\fR script for the local zone is used for notifications from the local zone's instance of \fBauditd\fR. If the \fBperzone\fR policy is not set, all \fBauditd\fR errors are generated by the global zone's copy of \fB/etc/security/audit_warn\fR.
