'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH audit 1M "6 Oct 2010" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
audit \- control the behavior of the audit daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBaudit\fR \fB-n\fR | \fB-s\fR | \fB-t\fR | \fB-v\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudit\fR command is the system administrator's interface to start, stop, and refresh the audit service \fBauditd\fR(1M). Refreshing the audit service rereads the system and plugin configuration.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Notify the audit service \fBaudit_binfile\fR plugin to close the current audit file and open a new audit file in the current audit directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Start (enable) the audit service if it is not running, or refresh the audit service, if it is currently running.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Terminate (disable) the audit service.  The audit service will close out the active plugins, stop auditing and exit. Use \fB-s\fR to restart auditing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Verify that at least one plugin is active. Verify the directory parameters of \fBaudit_binfile\fR(5).
.RE

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudit\fR command will exit with \fB0\fR upon success and a positive integer upon failure.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBauditconfig\fR(1M), \fBauditd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBaudit_binfile\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
See the section on Solaris Auditing in \fISystem Administration Guide: Security Services\fR.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudit\fR command does not modify a process's preselection mask. Its functions are limited to performing control actions of the auditing subsystem. See \fBauditconfig\fR(1M) for configuration.
.sp
.LP
The \fB-s\fR option validates the audit plugin configuration. If it is not valid an error message is displayed and the audit service is not started or refreshed. The \fB-v\fR option may be used to validate the audit plugin configuration before using the \fB-s\fR option to start or refresh the audit service.
.sp
.LP
The \fB-s\fR option also checks state of the audit service. In case the audit service is found in the maintenance state (thus not able to be enabled or refreshed) the \fBaudit\fR command returns with an appropriate message and exit code.
.sp
.LP
All options are valid in the global zone. Unless per-zone is enabled, only the \fB-v\fR option is valid in a local zone. See \fBauditconfig\fR(1M) for per-zone audit configuration.
