'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH clinfo 1M "12 Mar 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
clinfo \- display cluster information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBclinfo\fR [\fB-nh\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBclinfo\fR command displays cluster configuration information about the node from which the command is executed.
.sp
.LP
Without arguments, \fBclinfo\fR returns an exit status of \fB0\fR if the node is configured and booted as part of a cluster. Otherwise, \fBclinfo\fR returns an exit status of \fB1\fR. 
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Displays the highest node number allowed to be configured. This is different from the maximum number of nodes supported in a given cluster. The current highest configured node number can change immediately after the command returns since new nodes can be dynamically added to a running cluster. 
.sp
For example, \fBclinfo\fR \fB-h\fR might return \fB64\fR, meaning that the highest number you can use to identify a node is \fB64\fR. See the \fISun Cluster 3.0 System Administration Guide\fR for a description of utilities you can use to determine the number of nodes in a cluster.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Prints the number of the node from which \fBclinfo\fR is executed. 
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned: 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.sp
This is usually because the node is not configured or booted as part of a cluster. 
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
