'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH devinfo 1M "8 May 1997" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
devinfo \- print device specific information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/devinfo\fR \fB-i\fR \fIdevice\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/devinfo\fR \fB-p\fR \fIdevice\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdevinfo\fR command is used to print device specific information about disk devices on standard out. The command can only be used by the superuser.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Prints the following device information: 
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Device name
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Software version (not supported and prints as \fB0\fR)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Drive id number (not supported and prints as \fB0\fR)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Device blocks per cylinder
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Device bytes per block
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Number of device partitions with a block size greater than zero
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Prints the following device partition information: 
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Device name
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Device major and minor numbers (in hexadecimal)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Partition start block
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Number of blocks allocated to the partition
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Partition flag
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Partition tag
.RE
.RE

.sp
.LP
This command is used by various other commands to obtain device specific  information for the making of file systems and determining partition  information. If the device cannot be opened, an error message is reported.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdevice\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Device name.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Operation failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBprtvtoc\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
