'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH dfmounts 1M "24 May 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
dfmounts \- display mounted resource information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdfmounts\fR [\fB-F\fR \fIFSType\fR] [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIspecific_options\fR] 
     [\fIrestriction\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBdfmounts\fR shows the local resources shared through a distributed file system \fIFSType\fR along with a list of clients that have the resource mounted. If \fIrestriction\fR is not specified, \fBdfmounts\fR shows file systems that are currently shared on any \fBNFS\fR server. \fIspecific_options\fR as well as the availability and semantics of \fIrestriction\fR are specific to particular distributed file system types.
.sp
.LP
If \fBdfmounts\fR is entered without arguments, remote resources currently mounted on the local system are displayed, regardless of file system type. However, the \fBdfmounts\fR command does not display the names of NFS Version 4 clients.
.SS "\fBdfmounts\fR Output"
.sp
.LP
The output of \fBdfmounts\fR consists of an optional header line (suppressed with the \fB-h\fR flag) followed by a list of lines containing whitespace-separated fields. For each resource, the fields are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIresource server pathname clients ...\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIresource\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Specifies the resource name that must be given to the \fBmount\fR(1M) command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIserver\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Specifies the system from which the resource was mounted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Specifies the pathname that must be given to the \fBshare\fR(1M) command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIclients\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Is a comma-separated list of systems that have mounted the resource. Clients are listed in the form \fIdomain.\fR, \fIdomain.system\fR, or \fIsystem\fR, depending on the file system type.
.RE

.sp
.LP
A field can be null. Each null field is indicated by a hyphen (\(mi) unless the remainder of the fields on the line are also null, in which case the hyphen can be omitted.
.sp
.LP
Fields with whitespace are enclosed in quotation marks (\fB"\|"\fR).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR \fIFSType\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Specify filesystem type. Defaults to the first entry in \fB/etc/dfs/fstypes\fR. \fBNote\fR: currently the only valid \fIFSType\fR is \fBnfs\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Suppress header line in output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIspecific_options\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Specify options specific to the filesystem provided by the \fB-F\fR option. \fBNote\fR: currently no options are supported.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/dfs/fstypes\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
file system types
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdfshares\fR(1M), \fBmount\fR(1M), \fBshare\fR(1M), \fBunshare\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
