'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH dhcpmgr 1M "22 Jun 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
dhcpmgr \- graphical interface for managing DHCP service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sadm/admin/bin/dhcpmgr\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBdhcpmgr\fR is a graphical user interface which enables you to manage the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (\fBDHCP\fR) service on the local system. It performs the functions of the \fBdhcpconfig\fR, \fBdhtadm\fR, and \fBpntadm\fR command line utilities. You must be \fBroot\fR to use \fBdhcpmgr\fR. The \fBdhcpmgr\fR Help, available from the \fBHelp\fR menu, contains detailed information about using the tool.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdhcpmgr\fR utility is obsolete and is subject to removal in a future release of Oracle Solaris.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
You can perform the following tasks using \fBdhcpmgr\fR: 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBConfigure DHCP service\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use \fBdhcpmgr\fR to configure the DHCP daemon as a \fBDHCP\fR server, and select the data store to use for storing network configuration tables..
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBConfigure BOOTP relay service\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use \fBdhcpmgr\fR to configure the DHCP daemon as a \fBBOOTP\fR relay.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBManage DHCP or BOOTP relay service\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use \fBdhcpmgr\fR to start, stop, enable, disable or unconfigure the \fBDHCP\fR service or \fBBOOTP\fR relay service, or change DHCP server parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBManage DHCP addresses\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use \fBdhcpmgr\fR to add, modify, or delete \fBIP\fR addresses leased by the \fBDHCP\fR service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBManage DHCP macros\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use \fBdhcpmgr\fR to add, modify or delete macros used to supply configuration parameters to \fBDHCP\fR clients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBManage DHCP options\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use \fBdhcpmgr\fR to add, modify or delete options used to define parameters deliverable through \fBDHCP\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBConvert to a new DHCP data store\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use \fBdhcpmgr\fR to configure the DHCP server to use a different data store, and convert the DHCP data to the format used by the new data store.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBMove DHCP data to another server\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use \fBdhcpmgr\fR to export data from one Solaris DHCP server and import data onto another Solaris DHCP server.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Successful completion. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnon-zero\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitynetwork/dhcp/dhcpmgr
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdhcpconfig\fR(1M), \fBdhtadm\fR(1M), \fBpntadm\fR(1M), \fBin.dhcpd\fR(1M), \fBdhcpsvc.conf\fR(4), \fBdhcp_network\fR(4), \fBdhcptab\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBdhcp\fR(5), \fBdhcp_modules\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
