'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH dladm 1M "27 Jul 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
dladm \- administer data links
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdladm show-link\fR [\fB-PZ\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]]
     [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIlink\fR]
\fBdladm rename-link\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIlink\fR \fInew-link\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm delete-phys\fR \fIphys-link\fR
\fBdladm show-phys\fR [\fB-PZ\fR] [\fB-Lm\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-H\fR]
     [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIphys-link\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm create-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIpolicy\fR] [\fB-L\fR \fImode\fR] 
     [\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIaddress\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIether-link1\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIether-link2\fR...] \fIaggr-link\fR
\fBdladm modify-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIpolicy\fR] [\fB-L\fR \fImode\fR] 
     [\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIaddress\fR] \fIaggr-link\fR
\fBdladm delete-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIaggr-link\fR
\fBdladm add-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIether-link1\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIether-link2\fR...] 
     \fIaggr-link\fR
\fBdladm remove-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIether-link1\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIether-link2\fR...]
     \fIaggr-link\fR
\fBdladm show-aggr\fR [\fB-PLxZ\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]]
     [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIaggr-link\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm create-bridge\fR [\fB-P\fR \fIprotect\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR]
     [\fB-m\fR \fImax-age\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhello-time\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIforward-delay\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIforce-protocol\fR]
     [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR...] \fIbridge-name\fR
\fBdladm modify-bridge\fR [\fB-P\fR \fIprotect\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR]
     [\fB-m\fR \fImax-age\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhello-time\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIforward-delay\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIforce-protocol\fR]
     \fIbridge-name\fR
\fBdladm delete-bridge\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIbridge-name\fR
\fBdladm add-bridge\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR...]\fIbridge-name\fR
\fBdladm remove-bridge\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR...] \fIbridge-name\fR
\fBdladm show-bridge\fR [\fB-flt\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR,...]
     [\fIbridge-name\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm create-vlan\fR [\fB-ft\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIether-link\fR \fB-v\fR \fIvid\fR [\fIvlan-link\fR]
\fBdladm delete-vlan\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIvlan-link\fR
\fBdladm show-vlan\fR [\fB-PZ\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIvlan-link\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm scan-wifi\fR [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIwifi-link\fR]
\fBdladm connect-wifi\fR [\fB-e\fR \fIessid\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIbssid\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIkey\fR,...]
     [\fB-s\fR none | wep | wpa ] [\fB-a\fR open | shared] [\fB-b\fR bss | ibss] [\fB-c\fR]
     [\fB-m\fR a | b | g | n ] [\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR] [\fIwifi-link\fR]
\fBdladm disconnect-wifi\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fIwifi-link\fR]
\fBdladm show-wifi\fR [\fB-Z\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIwifi-link\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm show-ether\fR [\fB-xZ\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIether-link\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm set-linkprop\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...] \fIlink\fR
\fBdladm reset-linkprop\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR[,...]] \fIlink\fR
\fBdladm show-linkprop\fR [\fB-PZ\fR] [[\fB-c\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR[,...]]
     [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIlink\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm create-secobj\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR] \fB-c\fR \fIclass\fR \fIsecobj\fR
\fBdladm delete-secobj\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIsecobj\fR[,...]
\fBdladm show-secobj\fR [\fB-P\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIsecobj\fR,...]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm create-vnic\fR [\fB-t\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIvalue\fR | auto | 
     {factory [\fB-n\fR \fIslot-identifier\fR]} | {vrrp \fB-A\fR {inet | inet6} \fB-V\fR \fIvrid\fR}
     | {random [\fB-r\fR \fIprefix\fR]}] [\fB-v\fR \fIvlan-id\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]] \fIvnic-link\fR
\fBdladm delete-vnic\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIvnic-link\fR
\fBdladm show-vnic\fR [\fB-pPZ\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]] [\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]]
     [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIvnic-link\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm create-etherstub\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIetherstub\fR
\fBdladm delete-etherstub\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIetherstub\fR
\fBdladm show-etherstub\fR [\fB-Z\fR] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIetherstub\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm create-iptun\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-T\fR \fItype\fR [\fB-a\fR {local|remote}=\fIaddr\fR,...]
     \fIiptun-link\fR
\fBdladm modify-iptun\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-a\fR {local|remote}=\fIaddr\fR,...
     \fIiptun-link\fR
\fBdladm delete-iptun\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIiptun-link\fR
\fBdladm show-iptun\fR [\fB-PZ\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIiptun-link\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm create-part\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-f\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIib-link\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-P\fR \fIpkey\fR
     [\fB-p\fR prop=\fIvalue\fR[,...]] \fIpart-link\fR
\fBdladm delete-part\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIpart-link\fR
\fBdladm show-part\fR [\fB-pP\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-l\fR \fIib-link\fR]  [\fIpart-link\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm show-ib\fR [\fB-pP\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIib-link\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm show-usage\fR [\fB-a\fR] \fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIplotfile\fR \fB-F\fR \fIformat\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fItime\fR]
     [\fB-e\fR \fItime\fR] [\fIlink\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdladm\fR command is used to administer data-links. A data-link is represented in the system as a \fBSTREAMS DLPI\fR (v2) interface which can be plumbed under protocol stacks such as \fBTCP/IP\fR. Each data-link relies on either a single network device or an aggregation of devices to send packets to or receive packets from a network.
.sp
.LP
Each \fBdladm\fR subcommand operates on one of the following objects:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A datalink, identified by a name. In general, the name can use any alphanumeric characters (or the underscore, \fB_\fR, or the period, \fB\&.\fR), but must start with an alphabetic character and end with a number. A datalink name can be at most 31 characters, and the ending number must be between 0 and 4294967294 (inclusive). The ending number must not begin with a zero. Datalink names between 3 and 8 characters are recommended.
.sp
Some subcommands operate only on certain types or classes of datalinks. For those cases, the following object names are used:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBaggr-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An aggregation datalink (or a key; see NOTES).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBether-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A physical Ethernet datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBiptun-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An IP tunnel link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpart-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An InfiniBand (IB) partition data link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBphys-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A physical datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBvlan-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A VLAN datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBvnic-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A virtual network interface created on a link or an \fBetherstub\fR. It is a pseudo device that can be treated as if it were an network interface card on a machine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBwifi-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A WiFi datalink.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBbridge\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A bridge instance, identified by an administratively-chosen name. The name may use any alphanumeric characters or the underscore, \fB_\fR, but must start and end with an alphabetic character. A bridge name can be at most 31 characters. The name \fBdefault\fR is reserved, as are all names starting with \fBSUNW\fR.
.sp
Note that appending a zero (\fB0\fR) to a bridge name produces a valid link name, used for observability.
.sp
Also note that the bridge-related subcommands, described with \fBdladm\fR subcommands below, require installation of the \fBpkg://solaris/network/bridging\fR package.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdev\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A network device, identified by concatenation of a driver name and an instance number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBetherstub\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An Ethernet stub can be used instead of a physical NIC to create VNICs. VNICs created on an \fBetherstub\fR will appear to be connected through a virtual switch, allowing complete virtual networks to be built without physical hardware.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpart\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An IB partition link created on a IB physical link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsecobj\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A secure object, identified by an administratively-chosen name. The name can use any alphanumeric characters, as well as underscore (\fB_\fR), period (\fB\&.\fR), and hyphen (\fB-\fR). A secure object name can be at most 32 characters.
.RE

.SS "Options"
.sp
.LP
Each \fBdladm\fR subcommand has its own set of options. However, many of the subcommands have the following as a common option:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an alternate root directory where the operation-such as creation, deletion, or renaming-should apply.
.RE

.SS "SUBCOMMANDS"
.sp
.LP
The following subcommands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-link\fR [\fB-PZ\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIlink\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show link configuration information either for all datalinks or for the specified link. By default, the system is configured with one datalink for each known network device. The option to print link statistics is moved to \fBdlstat\fR(1M).
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...], \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. When not modified by the \fB-s\fR option (described below), the field name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR to display all fields. By default (without \fB-o\fR), \fBshow-link\fR displays all fields.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBZONE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The current zone of the datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCLASS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The class of the datalink. \fBdladm\fR distinguishes between the following classes:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBaggr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An IEEE 802.3ad link aggregation. The \fBshow-aggr\fR subcommand displays more detail for this class of datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBbridge\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A bridge instance, identified by an administratively-chosen name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBetherstub\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Instance of an etherstub. An Ethernet stub can be used instead of a physical NIC to create VNICs. VNICs created on an \fBetherstub\fR will appear to be connected through a virtual switch, allowing complete virtual networks to be built without physical hardware.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBiptun\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An instance of an IP tunnel link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpart\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An IP-over-IB interface. The \fBshow-part\fR subcommand displays more detail for this class of datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBphys\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A physical datalink. The \fBshow-phys\fR subcommand displays more detail for this class of datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBvlan\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A VLAN datalink. The \fBshow-vlan\fR subcommand displays more detail for this class of datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBvnic\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A virtual network interface. The \fBshow-vnic\fR subcommand displays more detail for this class of datalink.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMTU\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The maximum transmission unit size for the datalink being displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The link state of the datalink. The state can be \fBup\fR, \fBdown\fR, or \fBunknown\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBBRIDGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the bridge to which this link is assigned, if any.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBOVER\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The physical datalink(s) over which the datalink is operating. This applies to \fBaggr\fR, \fBbridge\fR, and \fBvlan\fR and \fBpart\fR partition classes of datalinks. A VLAN or IB partition is created over a single physical datalink, a bridge has multiple attached links, and an aggregation is comprised of one or more physical datalinks.
.RE

When the \fB-o\fR option is used in conjunction with the \fB-s\fR option, used to display link statistics, the field name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR to display all fields
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBIPACKETS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets received on this link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBRBYTES\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of bytes received on this link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBIERRORS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of input errors.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBOPACKETS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets sent on this link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBOBYTES\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of bytes sent on this link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBOERRORS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of output errors.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the persistent link configuration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR, \fB--statistics\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display link statistics. This option is made obsolete by \fBdlstat\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR, \fB--interval\fR=\fIinterval\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Used with the \fB-s\fR option to specify an interval, in seconds, at which statistics should be displayed. This option is made obsolete by \fBdlstat\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-Z\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display \fBZONE\fR column in the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display links from the specified zones. By default, \fBdladm\fR displays links in all the zones when it is run from the global zone. The links in other zones are displayed with the corresponding zonename as its prefix, followed by the slash (\fB/\fR) separator. For example, \fBzone1/net0\fR
.sp
When run from a non-global zone, this subcommand displays only links from that zone. A non-global zone cannot see links in other zones.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm rename-link\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIlink\fR \fInew-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Rename \fIlink\fR to \fInew-link\fR. This is used to give a link a meaningful name, or to associate existing link configuration such as link properties of a removed device with a new device. See the \fBEXAMPLES\fR section for specific examples of how this subcommand is used.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-phys\fR \fIphys-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This command is used to delete the persistent configuration of a link associated with physical hardware which has been removed from the system. See the \fBEXAMPLES\fR section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-phys\fR [\fB-PZ\fR] [\fB-Lm\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-H\fR] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIphys-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the physical device and attributes of all physical links, or of the named physical link. Without \fB-P\fR, only physical links that are available on the running system are displayed.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-H\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show hardware resource usage, as returned by the NIC driver. Output from \fB-H\fR displays the following elements:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A physical device corresponding to a NIC driver.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBRINGTYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The type of the ring, either RX or TX.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBRINGS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The ring index. A ring is an hardware resource, which typically maps to a DMA channel, that can be programmed for specific use. For example, an RX ring can be programmed to receive only packets belonging to a specific MAC address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCLIENTS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
MAC clients that are using the rings.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display location information for the physical devices/links. Output is in location order\(emthat is, onboard devices before expansion slots\(emand location information (for example, PCIexp Slot 2, MB) is supplied where available.  Output from \fB-L\fR supports the following elements:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A physical device corresponding to a NIC driver.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDEVICE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the physical device under this link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLOC\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Physical location description string (where available).
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the list of factory MAC addresses, their slot identifiers, and their availability.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR, \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR, to display all fields. For each link, the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMEDIA\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The media type provided by the physical datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The state of the link. This can be \fBup\fR, \fBdown\fR, or \fBunknown\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSPEED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The current speed of the link, in megabits per second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDUPLEX\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For Ethernet links, the full/half duplex status of the link is displayed if the link state is \fBup\fR. The duplex is displayed as \fBunknown\fR in all other cases.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDEVICE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the physical device under this link.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option displays persistent configuration for all links, including those that have been removed from the system. The output provides a \fBFLAGS\fR column in which the \fBr\fR flag indicates that the physical device associated with a physical link has been removed. For such links, \fBdelete-phys\fR can be used to purge the link's configuration from the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-Z\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display \fBZONE\fR column in the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See description of \fB-z\fR option under \fBdladm show-link\fR, above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm create-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIpolicy\fR] [\fB-L\fR \fImode\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIaddress\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIether-link1\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIether-link2\fR...] \fIaggr-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Combine a set of links into a single IEEE 802.3ad link aggregation named \fIaggr-link\fR. The use of an integer \fIkey\fR to generate a link name for the aggregation is also supported for backward compatibility. Many of the \fB*\fR\fB-aggr\fR subcommands below also support the use of a \fIkey\fR to refer to a given aggregation, but use of the aggregation link name is preferred. See the \fBNOTES\fR section for more information on keys.
.sp
\fBdladm\fR supports a number of port selection policies for an aggregation of ports. (See the description of the \fB-P\fR option, below.) If you do not specify a policy, \fBcreate-aggr\fR uses the default, the L4 policy, described under the \fB-P\fR option.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIether-link\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIether-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Each Ethernet link (or port) in the aggregation is specified using an \fB-l\fR option followed by the name of the link to be included in the aggregation. Multiple links are included in the aggregation by specifying multiple \fB-l\fR options. For backward compatibility with previous versions of Solaris, the \fBdladm\fR command also supports the using the \fB-d\fR option (or \fB--dev\fR) with a device name to specify links by their underlying device name. The other \fB*\fR\fB-aggr\fR subcommands that take \fB-l\fRoptions also accept \fB-d\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the aggregation is temporary. Temporary aggregations last until the next reboot. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR \fIpolicy\fR, \fB--policy\fR=\fIpolicy\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the port selection policy to use for load spreading of outbound traffic. The policy specifies which \fIdev\fR object is used to send packets. A policy is a list of one or more layers specifiers separated by commas. A layer specifier is one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBL2\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Select outbound device according to source and destination \fBMAC\fR addresses of the packet.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBL3\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Select outbound device according to source and destination \fBIP\fR addresses of the packet.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBL4\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Select outbound device according to the upper layer protocol information contained in the packet. For \fBTCP\fR and \fBUDP\fR, this includes source and destination ports. For IPsec, this includes the \fBSPI\fR (Security Parameters Index).
.RE

For example, to use upper layer protocol information, the following policy can be used:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-P L4
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Note that policy L4 is the default.
.sp
To use the source and destination \fBMAC\fR addresses as well as the source and destination \fBIP\fR addresses, the following policy can be used:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-P L2,L3
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR \fImode\fR, \fB--lacp-mode\fR=\fImode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether \fBLACP\fR should be used and, if used, the mode in which it should operate. Supported values are \fBoff\fR, \fBactive\fR or \fBpassive\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR, \fB--lacp-timer\fR=\fItime\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the \fBLACP\fR timer value. The supported values are \fBshort\fR or \fBlong\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fIaddress\fR, \fB--unicast\fR=\fIaddress\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a fixed unicast hardware address to be used for the aggregation. If this option is not specified, then an address is automatically chosen from the set of addresses of the component devices.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm modify-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIpolicy\fR] [\fB-L\fR \fImode\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIaddress\fR] \fIaggr-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Modify the parameters of the specified aggregation. 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the modification is temporary. Temporary aggregations last until the next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR \fIpolicy\fR, \fB--policy\fR=\fIpolicy\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the port selection policy to use for load spreading of outbound traffic. See \fBdladm create-aggr\fR for a description of valid policy values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR \fImode\fR, \fB--lacp-mode\fR=\fImode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether \fBLACP\fR should be used and, if used, the mode in which it should operate. Supported values are \fBoff\fR, \fBactive\fR, or \fBpassive\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR, \fB--lacp-timer\fR=\fItime\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the \fBLACP\fR timer value. The supported values are \fBshort\fR or \fBlong\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fIaddress\fR, \fB--unicast\fR=\fIaddress\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a fixed unicast hardware address to be used for the aggregation. If this option is not specified, then an address is automatically chosen from the set of addresses of the component devices.
.sp
(Note that modification of the fixed unicast hardware address will override any previously defined \fBmac-address\fR link property defined for the aggregation. See "General Link Properties".)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIaggr-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deletes the specified aggregation.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the deletion is temporary. Temporary deletions last until the next reboot. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm add-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIether-link1\fR [\fB--link\fR=\fIether-link2\fR...] \fIaggr-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Adds links to the specified aggregation.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIether-link\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIether-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an Ethernet link to add to the aggregation. Multiple links can be added by supplying multiple \fB-l\fR options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the additions are temporary. Temporary additions last until the next reboot. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm remove-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIether-link1\fR [\fB--l\fR=\fIether-link2\fR...] \fIaggr-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Removes links from the specified aggregation.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIether-link\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIether-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an Ethernet link to remove from the aggregation. Multiple links can be added by supplying multiple \fB-l\fR options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the removals are temporary. Temporary removal last until the next reboot. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-aggr\fR [\fB-PLxZ\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIaggr-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show aggregation configuration (the default) or \fBLACP\fR information either for all aggregations or for the specified aggregation.
.sp
By default (with no options), the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the aggregation link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPOLICY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The LACP policy of the aggregation. See the \fBcreate-aggr\fR \fB-P\fR option for a description of the possible values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBADDRPOLICY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either \fBauto\fR, if the aggregation is configured to automatically configure its unicast MAC address (the default if the \fB-u\fR option was not used to create or modify the aggregation), or \fBfixed\fR, if \fB-u\fR was used to set a fixed MAC address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLACPACTIVITY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The LACP mode of the aggregation. Possible values are \fBoff\fR, \fBactive\fR, or \fBpassive\fR, as set by the \fB-l\fR option to \fBcreate-aggr\fR or \fBmodify-aggr\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLACPTIMER\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The LACP timer value of the aggregation as set by the \fB-T\fR option of \fBcreate-aggr\fR or \fBmodify-aggr\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBFLAGS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A set of state flags associated with the aggregation. The only possible flag is \fBf\fR, which is displayed if the administrator forced the creation the aggregation using the \fB-f\fR option to \fBcreate-aggr\fR. Other flags might be defined in the future.
.RE

The \fBshow-aggr\fR command accepts the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR, \fB--lacp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays detailed \fBLACP\fR information for the aggregation link and each underlying port. Most of the state information displayed by this option is defined by IEEE 802.3. With this option, the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the aggregation link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of one of the underlying aggregation ports.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAGGREGATABLE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Whether the port can be added to the aggregation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSYNC\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fByes\fR, the system considers the port to be synchronized and part of the aggregation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCOLL\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fByes\fR, collection of incoming frames is enabled on the associated port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDIST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fByes\fR, distribution of outgoing frames is enabled on the associated port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDEFAULTED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fByes\fR, the port is using defaulted partner information (that is, has not received LACP data from the LACP partner).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEXPIRED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fByes\fR, the receive state of the port is in the \fBEXPIRED\fR state.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR, \fB--extended\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display additional aggregation information including detailed information on each underlying port. With \fB-x\fR, the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the aggregation link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of one of the underlying aggregation ports.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSPEED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The speed of the link or port in megabits per second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDUPLEX\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The full/half duplex status of the link or port is displayed if the link state is \fBup\fR. The duplex status is displayed as \fBunknown\fR in all other cases.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The link state. This can be \fBup\fR, \fBdown\fR, or \fBunknown\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBADDRESS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The MAC address of the link or port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPORTSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This indicates whether the individual aggregation port is in the \fBstandby\fR or \fBattached\fR state.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...], \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field name must be one of the fields listed above, or the special value \fBall\fR, to display all fields. The fields applicable to the \fB-o\fR option are limited to those listed under each output mode. For example, if using \fB-L\fR, only the fields listed under \fB-L\fR, above, can be used with \fB-o\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the persistent aggregation configuration rather than the state of the running system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR, \fB--statistics\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays aggregation statistics. This option is made obsolete by \fBdlstat\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR, \fB--interval\fR=\fIinterval\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Used with the \fB-s\fR option to specify an interval, in seconds, at which statistics should be displayed. This option is made obsolete by \fBdlstat\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-Z\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display \fBZONE\fR column in the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See description of \fB-z\fR option under \fBdladm show-link\fR, above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm create-bridge\fR [ \fB-P\fR \fIprotect\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [ \fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR] [ \fB-m\fR \fImax-age\fR] [ \fB-h\fR \fIhello-time\fR] [ \fB-d\fR \fIforward-delay\fR] [ \fB-f\fR \fIforce-protocol\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR...] \fIbridge-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create an 802.1D bridge instance and optionally assign one or more network links to the new bridge. By default, no bridge instances are present on the system.
.sp
In order to bridge between links, you must create at least one bridge instance. Each bridge instance is separate, and there is no forwarding connection between bridges.
.sp
Note that the bridge-related subcommands, \fBcreate-bridge\fR among them, require installation of the \fBpkg://solaris/network/bridging\fR package.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR \fIprotect\fR, \fB--protect\fR=\fIprotect\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a protection method. The defined protection methods are \fBstp\fR for the Spanning Tree Protocol and trill for \fBTRILL\fR, which is used on RBridges. The default value is \fBstp\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR, \fB--priority\fR=\fIpriority\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the Bridge Priority. This sets the IEEE STP priority value for determining the root bridge node in the network. The default value is \fB32768\fR. Valid values are \fB0\fR (highest priority) to \fB61440\fR (lowest priority), in increments of 4096.
.sp
If a value not evenly divisible by 4096 is used, the system silently rounds downward to the next lower value that is divisible by 4096.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fImax-age\fR, \fB--max-age\fR=\fImax-age\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the maximum age for configuration information in seconds. This sets the STP Bridge Max Age parameter. This value is used for all nodes in the network if this node is the root bridge. Bridge link information older than this time is discarded. It defaults to 20 seconds. Valid values are from 6 to 40 seconds. See the \fB-d\fR \fIforward-delay\fR parameter for additional constraints.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR \fIhello-time\fR, \fB--hello-time\fR=\fIhello-time\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the STP Bridge Hello Time parameter. When this node is the root node, it sends Configuration BPDUs at this interval throughout the network. The default value is 2 seconds. Valid values are from 1 to 10 seconds. See the \fB-d\fR \fIforward-delay\fR parameter for additional constraints.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIforward-delay\fR, \fB--forward-delay\fR=\fIforward-delay\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the STP Bridge Forward Delay parameter. When this node is the root node, then all bridges in the network use this timer to sequence the link states when a port is enabled. The default value is 15 seconds. Valid values are from 4 to 30 seconds.
.sp
Bridges must obey the following two constraints:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
2 * (\fIforward-delay\fR - 1.0) >= \fImax-age\fR

\fImax-age\fR >= 2 * (\fIhello-time\fR + 1.0)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Any parameter setting that would violate those constraints is treated as an error and causes the command to fail with a diagnostic message. The message provides valid alternatives to the supplied values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIforce-protocol\fR, \fB--force-protocol\fR=\fIforce-protocol\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the MSTP forced maximum supported protocol. The default value is 3. Valid values are non-negative integers. The current implementation does not support RSTP or MSTP, so this currently has no effect. However, to prevent MSTP from being used in the future, the parameter may be set to \fB0\fR for STP only or \fB2\fR for STP and RSTP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies one or more links to add to the newly-created bridge. This is similar to creating the bridge and then adding one or more links, as with the \fBadd-bridge\fR subcommand. However, if any of the links cannot be added, the entire command fails, and the new bridge itself is not created. To add multiple links on the same command line, repeat this option for each link. You are permitted to create bridges without links. For more information about link assignments, see the \fBadd-bridge\fR subcommand.
.RE

Bridge creation and link assignment require the \fBPRIV_SYS_DL_CONFIG\fR privilege. Bridge creation might fail if the optional bridging feature is not installed on the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm modify-bridge\fR [ \fB-P\fR \fIprotect\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [ \fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR] [ \fB-m\fR \fImax-age\fR] [ \fB-h\fR \fIhello-time\fR] [ \fB-d\fR \fIforward-delay\fR] [ \fB-f\fR \fIforce-protocol\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR...] \fIbridge-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Modify the operational parameters of an existing bridge. The options are the same as for the \fBcreate-bridge\fR subcommand, except that the \fB-l\fR option is not permitted. To add links to an existing bridge, use the \fBadd-bridge\fR subcommand.
.sp
Bridge parameter modification requires the \fBPRIV_SYS_DL_CONFIG\fR privilege.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-bridge\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIbridge-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete a bridge instance. The bridge being deleted must not have any attached links. Use the \fBremove-bridge\fR subcommand to deactivate links before deleting a bridge.
.sp
Bridge deletion requires the \fBPRIV_SYS_DL_CONFIG\fR privilege.
.sp
The \fB-R\fR (\fB--root-dir\fR) option is the same as for the \fBcreate-bridge\fR subcommand.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm add-bridge\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR...] \fIbridge-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add one or more links to an existing bridge. If multiple links are specified, and adding any one of them results in an error, the command fails and no changes are made to the system.
.sp
Link addition to a bridge requires the \fBPRIV_SYS_DL_CONFIG\fR privilege.
.sp
A link may be a member of at most one bridge. An error occurs when you attempt to add a link that already belongs to another bridge. To move a link from one bridge instance to another, remove it from the current bridge before adding it to a new one.
.sp
The links assigned to a bridge must not also be VLANs, VNICs, or tunnels. Only physical Ethernet datalinks, aggregation datalinks, and Ethernet stubs are permitted to be assigned to a bridge.
.sp
Links assigned to a bridge must all have the same MTU. This is checked when the link is assigned. The link is added to the bridge in a deactivated form if it is not the first link on the bridge and it has a differing MTU.
.sp
Note that systems using bridging should not set the \fBeeprom\fR(1M) \fBlocal-mac-address?\fR variable to false.
.sp
The options are the same as for the \fBcreate-bridge\fR subcommand.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm remove-bridge\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR...] \fIbridge-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove one or more links from a bridge instance. If multiple links are specified, and removing any one of them would result in an error, the command fails and none are removed.
.sp
Link removal from a bridge requires the \fBPRIV_SYS_DL_CONFIG\fR privilege.
.sp
The options are the same as for the \fBcreate-bridge\fR subcommand.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-bridge\fR [\fB-flt\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR,...] [\fIbridge-name\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the running status and configuration of bridges, their attached links, learned forwarding entries, and \fBTRILL\fR nickname databases. When showing overall bridge status and configuration, the bridge name can be omitted to show all bridges. The other forms require a specified bridge.
.sp
The show-bridge subcommand accepts the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR, \fB--interval\fR=\fIinterval\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Used with the \fB-s\fR option to specify an interval, in seconds, at which statistics should be displayed. If this option is not specified, statistics will be displayed only once.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR, \fB--statistics\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display statistics for the specified bridges or for a given bridge's attached links. This option cannot be used with the \fB-f\fR and \fB-t\fR options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parsable format. See "Parsable Output Format," below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...], \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field names are described below. The special value all displays all fields. Each set of fields has its own default set to display when \fB-o\fR is not specified.
.RE

By default, the \fBshow-bridge\fR subcommand shows bridge configuration. The following fields can be shown:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBBRIDGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the bridge.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBADDRESS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The Bridge Unique Identifier value (MAC address).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPRIORITY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configured priority value; set by \fB-p\fR with \fBcreate-bridge\fR and \fBmodify-bridge\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBBMAXAGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configured bridge maximum age; set by \fB-m\fR with \fBcreate-bridge\fR and \fBmodify-bridge\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBBHELLOTIME\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configured bridge hello time; set by \fB-h\fR with \fBcreate-bridge\fR and \fBmodify-bridge\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBBFWDDELAY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configured forwarding delay; set by \fB-d\fR with \fBcreate-bridge\fR and \fBmodify-bridge\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBFORCEPROTO\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configured forced maximum protocol; set by \fB-f\fR with \fBcreate-bridge\fR and \fBmodify-bridge\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBTCTIME\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Time, in seconds, since last topology change.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBTCCOUNT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Count of the number of topology changes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBTCHANGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This indicates that a topology change was detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDESROOT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Bridge Identifier of the root node.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBROOTCOST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Cost of the path to the root node.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBROOTPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Port number used to reach the root node.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMAXAGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Maximum age value from the root node.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBHELLOTIME\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Hello time value from the root node.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBFWDDELAY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Forward delay value from the root node.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBHOLDTIME\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Minimum BPDU interval.
.RE

By default, when the \fB-o\fR option is not specified, only the \fBBRIDGE\fR, \fBADDRESS\fR, \fBPRIORITY\fR, and \fBDESROOT\fR fields are shown.
.sp
When the \fB-s\fR option is specified, the \fBshow-bridge\fR subcommand shows bridge statistics. The following fields can be shown:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBBRIDGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Bridge name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDROPS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets dropped due to resource problems.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBFORWARDS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets forwarded from one link to another.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMBCAST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of multicast and broadcast packets handled by the bridge.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBRECV\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets received on all attached links.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSENT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets sent on all attached links.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBUNKNOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets handled that have an unknown destination. Such packets are sent to all links.
.RE

By default, when the \fB-o\fR option is not specified, only the \fBBRIDGE\fR, \fBDROPS\fR, and \fBFORWARDS\fR fields are shown.
.sp
The \fBshow-bridge\fR subcommand also accepts the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR, \fB--link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays link-related status and statistics information for all links attached to a single bridge instance. By using this option and without the \fB-s\fR option, the following fields can be displayed for each link:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The link name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBINDEX\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Port (link) index number on the bridge.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
State of the link. The state can be \fBdisabled\fR, \fBdiscarding\fR, \fBlearning\fR, \fBforwarding\fR, \fBnon-stp\fR, or \fBbad-mtu\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBUPTIME\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of seconds since the last reset or initialization.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBOPERCOST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Actual cost in use (1-65535).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBOPERP2P\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This indicates whether point-to-point (\fBP2P\fR) mode been detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBOPEREDGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This indicates whether edge mode has been detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDESROOT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The Root Bridge Identifier that has been seen on this port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDESCOST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Path cost to the network root node through the designated port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDESBRIDGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Bridge Identifier for this port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDESPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The ID and priority of the port used to transmit configuration messages for this port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBTCACK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This indicates whether Topology Change Acknowledge has been seen.
.RE

When the \fB-l\fR option is specified without the \fB-o\fR option, only the \fBLINK\fR, \fBSTATE\fR, \fBUPTIME\fR, and \fBDESROOT\fR fields are shown.
.sp
When the \fB-l\fR option is specified, the \fB-s\fR option can be used to display the following fields for each link:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Link name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCFGBPDU\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of configuration BPDUs received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBTCNBPDU\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of topology change BPDUs received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBRSTPBPDU\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of Rapid Spanning Tree BPDUs received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBTXBPDU\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of BPDUs transmitted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDROPS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets dropped due to resource problems.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBRECV\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets received by the bridge.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBXMIT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets sent by the bridge.
.RE

When the \fB-o\fR option is not specified, only the \fBLINK\fR, \fBDROPS\fR, \fBRECV\fR, and \fBXMIT\fR fields are shown.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR, \fB--forwarding\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays forwarding entries for a single bridge instance. With this option, the following fields can be shown for each forwarding entry:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDEST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Destination MAC address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Age of entry in seconds and milliseconds. Omitted for local entries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBFLAGS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBL\fR (local) flag is shown if the MAC address belongs to an attached link or to a VNIC on one of the attached links.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBOUTPUT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For local entries, this is the name of the attached link that has the MAC address. Otherwise, for bridges that use Spanning Tree Protocol, this is the output interface name. For RBridges, this is the output \fBTRILL\fR nickname.
.RE

When the \fB-o\fR option is not specified, the \fBDEST\fR, \fBAGE\fR, \fBFLAGS\fR, and \fBOUTPUT\fR fields are shown.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--trill\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays \fBTRILL\fR nickname entries for a single bridge instance. With this option, the following fields can be shown for each \fBTRILL\fR nickname entry:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNICK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBTRILL\fR nickname for this RBridge, which is a number from 1 to 65535.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBFLAGS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBL\fR flag is shown if the nickname identifies the local system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Link name for output when sending messages to this RBridge.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNEXTHOP\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
MAC address of the next hop RBridge that is used to reach the RBridge with this nickname.
.RE

When the \fB-o\fR option is not specified, the \fBNICK\fR, \fBFLAGS\fR, \fBLINK\fR, and \fBNEXTHOP\fR fields are shown.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm create-vlan\fR [\fB-ft\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIether-link\fR \fB-v\fR \fIvid\fR [\fIvlan-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create a tagged VLAN link with an ID of \fIvid\fR over Ethernet link \fIether-link\fR. The name of the VLAN link can be specified as \fIvlan\fR-\fIlink\fR. If the name is not specified, a name will be automatically generated (assuming that \fIether-link\fR is \fIname\fR\fIPPA\fR) as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<\fIname\fR><1000 * \fIvlan-tag\fR + \fIPPA\fR>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

For example, if \fIether-link\fR is \fBbge1\fR and \fIvid\fR is 2, the name generated is \fBbge2001\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR, \fB--force\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Force the creation of the VLAN link. Some devices do not allow frame sizes large enough to include a VLAN header. When creating a VLAN link over such a device, the \fB-f\fR option is needed, and the MTU of the IP interfaces on the resulting VLAN must be set to 1496 instead of 1500.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIether-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies Ethernet link over which VLAN is created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the VLAN link is temporary. Temporary VLAN links last until the next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-vlan\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIvlan-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete the VLAN link specified.
.sp
The \fBdelete-vlan\fRsubcommand accepts the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the deletion is temporary. Temporary deletions last until the next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-vlan\fR [\fB-PZ\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIvlan-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display VLAN configuration for all VLAN links or for the specified VLAN link.
.sp
The \fBshow-vlan\fR subcommand accepts the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...], \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR, to display all fields. For each VLAN link, the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the VLAN link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBVID\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The ID associated with the VLAN.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBOVER\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the physical link over which this VLAN is configured.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBFLAGS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A set of flags associated with the VLAN link. Possible flags are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The VLAN was created using the \fB-f\fR option to \fBcreate-vlan\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBi\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The VLAN was implicitly created when the DLPI link was opened. These VLAN links are automatically deleted on last close of the DLPI link (for example, when the IP interface associated with the VLAN link is unplumbed).
.RE

Additional flags might be defined in the future.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the persistent VLAN configuration rather than the state of the running system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-Z\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display \fBZONE\fR column in the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See description of \fB-z\fR option under \fBdladm show-link\fR, above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm scan-wifi\fR [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIwifi-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Scans for \fBWiFi\fR networks, either on all \fBWiFi\fR links, or just on the specified \fIwifi-link\fR.
.sp
By default, currently all fields but \fBBSSTYPE\fR are displayed.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...], \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR to display all fields. For each \fBWiFi\fR network found, the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the link the \fBWiFi\fR network is on. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBESSID\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBESSID\fR (name) of the \fBWiFi\fR network.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBBSSID\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either the hardware address of the \fBWiFi\fR network's Access Point (for \fBBSS\fR networks), or the \fBWiFi\fR network's randomly generated unique token (for \fBIBSS\fR networks).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSEC\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either \fBnone\fR for a \fBWiFi\fR network that uses no security, \fBwep\fR for a \fBWiFi\fR network that requires WEP (Wired Equivalent Privacy), or \fBwpa\fR for a WiFi network that requires WPA (Wi-Fi Protected Access).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMODE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The supported connection modes: one or more of \fBa\fR, \fBb\fR, \fBg\fR, or \fBn\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTRENGTH\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The strength of the signal: one of \fBexcellent\fR, \fBvery good\fR, \fBgood\fR, \fBweak\fR, or \fBvery weak\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSPEED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The maximum speed of the \fBWiFi\fR network, in megabits per second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBBSSTYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either \fBbss\fR for \fBBSS\fR (infrastructure) networks, or \fBibss\fR for \fBIBSS\fR (ad-hoc) networks.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm connect-wifi\fR [\fB-e\fR \fIessid\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIbssid\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIkey\fR,...] [\fB-s\fR \fBnone\fR | \fBwep\fR | \fBwpa\fR] [\fB-a\fR \fBopen\fR|\fBshared\fR] [\fB-b\fR \fBbss\fR|\fBibss\fR] [\fB-c\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fBa\fR|\fBb\fR|\fBg\fR|\fBn\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR] [\fIwifi-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Connects to a \fBWiFi\fR network. This consists of four steps: \fIdiscovery\fR, \fIfiltration\fR, \fIprioritization\fR, and \fIassociation\fR. However, to enable connections to non-broadcast \fBWiFi\fR networks and to improve performance, if a \fBBSSID\fR or \fBESSID\fR is specified using the \fB-e\fR or \fB-i\fR options, then the first three steps are skipped and \fBconnect-wifi\fR immediately attempts to associate with a \fBBSSID\fR or \fBESSID\fR that matches the rest of the provided parameters. If this association fails, but there is a possibility that other networks matching the specified criteria exist, then the traditional discovery process begins as specified below. 
.sp
The discovery step finds all available \fBWiFi\fR networks on the specified WiFi link, which must not yet be connected. For administrative convenience, if there is only one \fBWiFi\fR link on the system, \fIwifi-link\fR can be omitted.
.sp
Once discovery is complete, the list of networks is filtered according to the value of the following options: 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fIessid,\fR \fB--essid\fR=\fIessid\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Networks that do not have the same \fIessid\fR are filtered out.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR \fBbss\fR|\fBibss\fR, \fB--bsstype\fR=\fBbss\fR|\fBibss\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Networks that do not have the same \fBbsstype\fR are filtered out.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fBa\fR|\fBb\fR|\fBg\fR, \fB--mode\fR=\fBa\fR|\fBb\fR|\fBg\fR|\fBn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Networks not appropriate for the specified 802.11 mode are filtered out.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR \fIkey,...\fR, \fB--key\fR=\fIkey, ...\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use the specified \fBsecobj\fR named by the key to connect to the network. Networks not appropriate for the specified keys are filtered out.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fBnone\fR|\fBwep\fR|\fBwpa\fR, \fB--sec\fR=\fBnone\fR|\fBwep\fR|\fBwpa\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Networks not appropriate for the specified security mode are filtered out.
.RE

Next, the remaining networks are prioritized, first by signal strength, and then by maximum speed. Finally, an attempt is made to associate with each network in the list, in order, until one succeeds or no networks remain. 
.sp
In addition to the options described above, the following options also control the behavior of \fBconnect-wifi\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fBopen\fR|\fBshared\fR, \fB--auth\fR=\fBopen\fR|\fBshared\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Connect using the specified authentication mode. By default, \fBopen\fR and \fBshared\fR are tried in order.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR, \fB--create-ibss\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Used with \fB-b ibss\fR to create a new ad-hoc network if one matching the specified \fBESSID\fR cannot be found. If no \fBESSID\fR is specified, then \fB-c -b ibss\fR always triggers the creation of a new ad-hoc network.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR, \fB--timeout\fR=\fItime\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the number of seconds to wait for association to succeed. If \fItime\fR is \fBforever\fR, then the associate will wait indefinitely. The current default is ten seconds, but this might change in the future. Timeouts shorter than the default might not succeed reliably.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR \fIkey,...\fR, \fB--key\fR=\fIkey,...\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
In addition to the filtering previously described, the specified keys will be used to secure the association. The security mode to use will be based on the key class; if a security mode was explicitly specified, it must be compatible with the key class. All keys must be of the same class. 
.sp
For security modes that support multiple key slots, the slot to place the key will be specified by a colon followed by an index. Therefore, \fB-k mykey:3\fR places \fBmykey\fR in slot 3. By default, slot 1 is assumed. For security modes that support multiple keys, a comma-separated list can be specified, with the first key being the active key.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm disconnect-wifi\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fIwifi-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disconnect from one or more \fBWiFi\fR networks. If \fIwifi-link\fR specifies a connected \fBWiFi\fR link, then it is disconnected. For administrative convenience, if only one \fBWiFi\fR link is connected, \fIwifi-link\fR can be omitted.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR, \fB--all-links\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disconnects from all connected links. This is primarily intended for use by scripts.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-wifi\fR [\fB-Z\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR,...] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIwifi-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Shows \fBWiFi\fR configuration information either for all \fBWiFi\fR links or for the specified link \fIwifi-link\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield,...\fR, \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR, to display all fields. For each \fBWiFi\fR link, the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the link being displayed. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTATUS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either \fBconnected\fR if the link is connected, or \fBdisconnected\fR if it is not connected. If the link is disconnected, all remaining fields have the value \fB--\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBESSID\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBESSID\fR (name) of the connected \fBWiFi\fR network.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBBSSID\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either the hardware address of the \fBWiFi\fR network's Access Point (for \fBBSS\fR networks), or the \fBWiFi\fR network's randomly generated unique token (for \fBIBSS\fR networks).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSEC\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either \fBnone\fR for a \fBWiFi\fR network that uses no security, \fBwep\fR for a \fBWiFi\fR network that requires WEP, or \fBwpa\fR for a WiFi network that requires WPA.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMODE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The supported connection modes: one or more of \fBa\fR, \fBb\fR, \fBg\fR, or \fBn\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTRENGTH\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The connection strength: one of \fBexcellent\fR, \fBvery good\fR, \fBgood\fR, \fBweak\fR, or \fBvery weak\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSPEED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The connection speed, in megabits per second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAUTH\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either \fBopen\fR or \fBshared\fR (see \fBconnect-wifi\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBBSSTYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either \fBbss\fR for \fBBSS\fR (infrastructure) networks, or \fBibss\fR for \fBIBSS\fR (ad-hoc) networks.
.RE

By default, currently all fields but \fBAUTH\fR, \fBBSSID\fR, \fBBSSTYPE\fR are displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-Z\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display \fBZONE\fR column in the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See description of \fB-z\fR option under \fBdladm show-link\fR, above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-ether\fR [\fB-xZ\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR,...] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIether-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Shows state information either for all physical Ethernet links or for a specified physical Ethernet link.
.sp
The \fBshow-ether\fR subcommand accepts the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR,..., \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR to display all fields. For each link, the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the link being displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPTYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Parameter type, where \fBcurrent\fR indicates the negotiated state of the link, \fBcapable\fR indicates capabilities supported by the device, \fBadv\fR indicates the advertised capabilities, and \fBpeeradv\fR indicates the capabilities advertised by the link-partner.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The state of the link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAUTO\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A \fByes\fR/\fBno\fR value indicating whether auto-negotiation is advertised.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSPEED-DUPLEX\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Combinations of speed and duplex values available. The units of speed are encoded with a trailing suffix of \fBG\fR (Gigabits/s) or \fBM\fR (Mb/s). Duplex values are encoded as \fBf\fR (full-duplex) or \fBh\fR (half-duplex).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPAUSE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Flow control information. Can be \fBno\fR, indicating no flow control is available; \fBtx\fR, indicating that the end-point can transmit pause frames, but ignores any received pause frames; \fBrx\fR, indicating that the end-point receives and acts upon received pause frames; or \fBbi\fR, indicating bi-directional flow-control.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBREM_FAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Fault detection information. Valid values are \fBnone\fR or \fBfault\fR.
.RE

By default, all fields except \fBREM_FAULT\fR are displayed for the "current" \fBPTYPE\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR, \fB--extended\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Extended output is displayed for \fBPTYPE\fR values of \fBcurrent\fR, \fBcapable\fR, \fBadv\fR and \fBpeeradv\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-Z\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display \fBZONE\fR column in the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See description of \fB-z\fR option under \fBdladm show-link\fR, above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm set-linkprop\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...] \fIlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the values of one or more properties on the link specified. The list of properties and their possible values depend on the link type, the network device driver, and networking hardware. These properties can be retrieved using \fBshow-linkprop\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the changes are temporary. Temporary changes last until the next reboot. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...], \fB--prop\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to set to the specified values.
.RE

Note that when the persistent value is set, the temporary value changes to the same value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm reset-linkprop\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR,...] \fIlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Resets one or more properties to their values on the link specified. Properties are reset to the values they had at startup. If no properties are specified, all properties are reset. See \fBshow-linkprop\fR for a description of properties.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the resets are temporary. Values are reset to default values. Temporary resets last until the next reboot. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop, ...\fR, \fB--prop\fR=\fIprop, ...\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to reset.
.RE

Note that when the persistent value is reset, the temporary value changes to the same value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-linkprop\fR [\fB-PZ\fR] [[\fB-c\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]][\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR[,...]] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIlink\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the current or persistent values of one or more properties, either for all datalinks or for the specified link. By default, current values are shown. If no properties are specified, all available link properties are displayed. For each property, the following fields are displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...], \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR to display all fields. For each link, the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPROPERTY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The read/write permissions of the property. The value shown is one of \fBro\fR or \fBrw\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBVALUE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The current (or persistent) property value. If the value is not set, it is shown as \fB--\fR. If it is unknown, the value is shown as \fB?\fR. Persistent values that are not set or have been reset will be shown as \fB--\fR and will use the system \fBDEFAULT\fR value (if any).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The default value of the property. If the property has no default value, \fB--\fR is shown.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPOSSIBLE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of the values the property can have. If the values span a numeric range, \fImin\fR - \fImax\fR might be shown as shorthand. If the possible values are unknown or unbounded, \fB--\fR is shown.
.RE

The list of properties depends on the link type and network device driver, and the available values for a given property further depends on the underlying network hardware and its state. General link properties are documented in the "General Link Properties" section. However, link properties that begin with "\fB_\fR" (underbar) are specific to a given link or its underlying network device and subject to change or removal. See the appropriate network device driver man page for details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is required with this option. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display persistent link property information
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop, ...\fR, \fB--prop\fR=\fIprop, ...\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to show. See the sections on link properties following subcommand descriptions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-Z\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display \fBZONE\fR column in the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See description of \fB-z\fR option under \fBdladm show-link\fR, above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm create-secobj\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR] \fB-c\fR \fIclass\fR \fIsecobj\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create a secure object named \fIsecobj\fR in the specified \fIclass\fR to be later used as a WEP or WPA key in connecting to an encrypted network. The value of the secure object can either be provided interactively or read from a file. The sequence of interactive prompts and the file format depends on the class of the secure object. 
.sp
Currently, the classes \fBwep\fR and \fBwpa\fR are supported. The \fBWEP\fR (Wired Equivalent Privacy) key can be either 5 or 13 bytes long. It can be provided either as an \fBASCII\fR or hexadecimal string -- thus, \fB12345\fR and \fB0x3132333435\fR are equivalent 5-byte keys (the \fB0x\fR prefix can be omitted). A file containing a \fBWEP\fR key must consist of a single line using either \fBWEP\fR key format. The WPA (Wi-Fi Protected Access) key must be provided as an ASCII string with a length between 8 and 63 bytes.
.sp
This subcommand is only usable by users or roles that belong to the "Network Link Security" \fBRBAC\fR profile.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fIclass\fR, \fB--class\fR=\fIclass\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fIclass\fR can be \fBwep\fR or \fBwpa\fR. See preceding discussion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the creation is temporary. Temporary creation last until the next reboot. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR, \fB--file\fR=\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a file that should be used to obtain the secure object's value. The format of this file depends on the secure object class. See the \fBEXAMPLES\fR section for an example of using this option to set a \fBWEP\fR key.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-secobj\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIsecobj\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete one or more specified secure objects. This subcommand is only usable by users or roles that belong to the "Network Link Security" \fBRBAC\fR profile. 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the deletions are temporary. Temporary deletions last until the next reboot. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-secobj\fR [\fB-P\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIsecobj\fR,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show current or persistent secure object information. If one or more secure objects are specified, then information for each is displayed. Otherwise, all current or persistent secure objects are displayed.
.sp
By default, current secure objects are displayed, which are all secure objects that have either been persistently created and not temporarily deleted, or temporarily created.
.sp
For security reasons, it is not possible to show the value of a secure object. 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...] , \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field name must be one of the fields listed below. For displayed secure object, the following fields can be shown:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBOBJECT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the secure object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCLASS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The class of the secure object.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display persistent secure object information
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm create-vnic\fR [\fB-t\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIvalue\fR | auto | {factory [\fB-n\fR \fIslot-identifier\fR]} | {vrrp \fB-A\fR {inet | inet6} \fB-V\fR \fIvrid\fR} | {random [\fB-r\fR \fIprefix\fR]}] [\fB-v\fR \fIvlan-id\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]] \fIvnic-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create a VNIC with name \fIvnic-link\fR over the specified link.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the VNIC is temporary. Temporary VNICs last until the next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fIlink\fR can be a physical link or an \fBetherstub\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fIvalue\fR | \fIkeyword\fR, \fB--mac-address\fR=\fIvalue\fR | \fIkeyword\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the VNIC's MAC address based on the specified value or keyword. If \fIvalue\fR is not a keyword, it is interpreted as a unicast MAC address, which must be valid for the underlying NIC. A user-specified MAC address must be drawn from the ranges specified by the Globally Unique and Locally Administered types of MAC addresses.
.sp
The following special keywords can be used:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBfactory [\fB-n\fR \fIslot-identifier\fR],\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBfactory [\fB--slot\fR=\fIslot-identifier\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Assign a factory MAC address to the VNIC. When a factory MAC address is requested, \fB-m\fR can be combined with the \fB-n\fR option to specify a MAC address slot to be used. If \fB-n\fR is not specified, the system will choose the next available factory MAC address. The \fB-m\fR option of the \fBshow-phys\fR subcommand can be used to display the list of factory MAC addresses, their slot identifiers, and their availability.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBrandom\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIprefix\fR],\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBrandom [\fB--mac-prefix\fR=\fIprefix\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Assign a random MAC address to the VNIC. A default prefix consisting of a valid IEEE OUI with the local bit set will be used. That prefix can be overridden with the \fB-r\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBvrrp\fR \fB-A\fR {\fBinet\fR | \fBinet6\fR} \fB-V\fR \fIvrid\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Assign a VRRP virtual MAC address to the VNIC base on the specified address family and \fIvrid\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBauto\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Try and use a factory MAC address first. If none is available, assign a random MAC address. \fBauto\fR is the default action if the \fB-m\fR option is not specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR \fIvlan-id\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable VLAN tagging for this VNIC. The VLAN tag will have id \fIvlan-id\fR.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR,..., \fB--prop\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR,...\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to set to the specified values.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-vnic\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIvnic-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deletes the specified VNIC.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the deletion is temporary. Temporary deletions last until the next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-vnic\fR [\fB-pPZ\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]] [\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIvnic-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show VNIC configuration information for all VNICs, all VNICs on a link, or only the specified \fIvnic-link\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...] , \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR to display all fields. By default (without \fB-o\fR), \fBshow-vnic\fR displays all fields.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the VNIC.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBOVER\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the physical link over which this VNIC is configured.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSPEED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The maximum speed of the VNIC, in megabits per second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMACADDRESS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
MAC address of the VNIC.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMACADDRTYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
MAC address type of the VNIC. \fBdladm\fR distinguishes among the following MAC address types:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrandom\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A random address assigned to the VNIC.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBfactory\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A factory MAC address used by the VNIC.
.RE

.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the persistent VNIC configuration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR, \fB--statistics\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays VNIC statistics. This option is made obsolete by \fBdlstat\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR, \fB--interval\fR=\fIinterval\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Used with the \fB-s\fR option to specify an interval, in seconds, at which statistics should be displayed. This option is made obsolete by \fBdlstat\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display information for all VNICs on the named link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-Z\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display \fBZONE\fR column in the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See description of \fB-z\fR option under \fBdladm show-link\fR, above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm create-part\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIib-link\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,..]] \fB-P\fR \fIpkey\fR \fIpart-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create an IP-over-IB link with the name \fIpart-link\fR over the specified link. This subcommand is supported only on InfiniBand physical links.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR, \fB--force\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Forces the creation of the partition link even if \fIpkey\fR is absent on the port, the multicast group is absent, or the port is down.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIib-link\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIib-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
IP-over-IB physical link name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--pkey\fR=\fIpkey\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Partition key to be used for creating the partition link. \fIpkey\fR specified is always treated as hexadecimal, whether it has the \fB0x\fR prefix or not.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,..]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--prop\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,..]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to set to the specified values. Supported properties are given "General Link Properties" section below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the partition link creation is temporary. Temporary partition links last until the next reboot.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-part\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIpart-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete the specified partition link.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the partition link deletion is temporary. Temporary deletion last until the next reboot.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-part\fR [\fB-pP\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIib-link\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIpart-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays IB partition link information for all partition links, for all partitions on \fIib-link\fR, or for only the specified \fIpart-link\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIib-link\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIib-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display information for all the partitions on the named link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR to display all fields. By default (without \fB-o\fR), \fBshow-part\fR displays all fields.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the partition link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPKEY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBPkey\fR associated with the partition link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBOVER\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the physical link over which this partition link is created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Current state of the partition link. Possible values are \fBup\fR, \fBdown\fR, or \fBunknown\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBFLAGS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A set of state flags used for creating the partition link. Possible values are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Partition was created forcibly (without checking whether creating a partition were possible).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
Partition link is temporary, lasting only until the next reboot.
.RE

.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the persistent IB partition link configuration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-ib\fR [\fB-pP\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIib-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display IB physical link information on all or the specified IB links.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR to display all fields. By default (without \fB-o\fR), \fBshow-ib\fR displays all fields.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the physical link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBHCAGUID\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Globally unique identifier of the HCA.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPORTGUID\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Globally unique identifier of the port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Port number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Current state of the physical link. Possible values are \fBup\fR, \fBdown\fR, or \fBunknown\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPKEYS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBPkey\fRs available on the port associated with the IP-over-IB link specified in the \fBLINK\fR field.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the persistent IB physical link configuration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm create-etherstub\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIetherstub\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create an etherstub with the specified name.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the etherstub is temporary. Temporary etherstubs do not persist across reboots.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

VNICs can be created on top of etherstubs instead of physical NICs. As with physical NICs, such a creation causes the stack to implicitly create a virtual switch between the VNICs created on top of the same etherstub.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-etherstub\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIetherstub\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete the specified etherstub.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the deletion is temporary. Temporary deletions last until the next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-etherstub\fR [\fB-Z\fR] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIetherstub\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show all configured etherstubs by default, or the specified etherstub if \fIetherstub\fR is specified.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-Z\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display \fBZONE\fR column in the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See description of \fB-z\fR option under \fBdladm show-link\fR, above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm create-iptun\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-T\fR \fItype\fR [\fB-a\fR {\fBlocal\fR|\fBremote\fR}=\fIaddr\fR,...] \fIiptun-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create an IP tunnel link named \fIiptun-link\fR. Such links can additionally be protected with IPsec using \fBipsecconf\fR(1M).
.sp
An IP tunnel is conceptually comprised of two parts: a virtual link between two or more IP nodes, and an IP interface above this link that allows the system to transmit and receive IP packets encapsulated by the underlying link. This subcommand creates a virtual link. The \fBipadm\fR(1M) command is used to configure IP interfaces above the link.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the IP tunnel link is temporary. Temporary tunnels last until the next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR \fItype\fR, \fB--tunnel-type\fR=\fItype\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the type of tunnel to be created. The type must be one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBipv4\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A point-to-point, IP-over-IP tunnel between two IPv4 nodes. This type of tunnel requires IPv4 source and destination addresses to function. IPv4 and IPv6 interfaces can be plumbed above such a tunnel to create IPv4-over-IPv4 and IPv6-over-IPv4 tunneling configurations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBipv6\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A point-to-point, IP-over-IP tunnel between two IPv6 nodes as defined in IETF RFC 2473. This type of tunnel requires IPv6 source and destination addresses to function. IPv4 and IPv6 interfaces can be plumbed above such a tunnel to create IPv4-over-IPv6 and IPv6-over-IPv6 tunneling configurations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB6to4\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A 6to4, point-to-multipoint tunnel as defined in IETF RFC 3056. This type of tunnel requires an IPv4 source address to function. An IPv6 interface is plumbed on such a tunnel link to configure a 6to4 router.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR {\fBlocal\fR|\fBremote\fR}=\fIaddr\fR,...\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--address\fR {\fBlocal\fR|\fBremote\fR}=\fIaddr\fR,...\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Literal IP addresses or hostnames corresponding to the local or remote tunnel addresses. Either local or remote can be specified individually, or both can be specified separated by a comma (for example, \fB-a\fR \fBlocal=\fR\fIladdr\fR\fB,remote=\fR\fIraddr\fR).
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm modify-iptun\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-a\fR {\fBlocal\fR|\fBremote\fR}=\fIaddr\fR,... \fIiptun-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Modify the parameters of the specified IP tunnel.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the modification is temporary. Temporary modifications last until the next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR {\fBlocal\fR|\fBremote\fR}=\fIaddr\fR,...\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--address\fR {\fBlocal\fR|\fBremote\fR}=\fIaddr\fR,...\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify new local or remote addresses for the tunnel link. See \fBcreate-iptun\fR for a description.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-iptun\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIiptun-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete the specified IP tunnel link.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the deletion is temporary. Temporary deletions last until the next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-iptun\fR [\fB-PZ\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]] [\fIiptun-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show IP tunnel link configuration for a single IP tunnel or all IP tunnels.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the persistent IP tunnel configuration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The -o option is required with -p. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...], \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR, to display all fields. By default (without \fB-o\fR), \fBshow-iptun\fR displays all fields.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the IP tunnel link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBTYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Type of tunnel as specified by the \fB-T\fR option of \fBcreate-iptun\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBFLAGS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A set of flags associated with the IP tunnel link. Possible flags are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The IP tunnel link is protected by IPsec policy. To display the IPsec policy associated with the tunnel link, enter:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBipsecconf -ln -i \fItunnel-link\fR\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

See \fBipsecconf\fR(1M) for more details on how to configure IPsec policy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBi\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The IP tunnel link was implicitly created with \fBipadm\fR(1M), and will be automatically deleted when it is no longer referenced (that is, when the last IP interface over the tunnel is removed). See \fBipadm\fR(1M) for details on implicit tunnel creation.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLOCAL\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The local tunnel address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBREMOTE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The remote tunnel address.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-Z\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display \fBZONE\fR column in the output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See description of \fB-z\fR option under \fBdladm show-link\fR, above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-usage\fR [\fB-a\fR] \fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIplotfile\fR \fB-F\fR \fIformat\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fItime\fR] [\fIlink\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This subcommand is made obsolete by the \fBdlstat\fR(1M) \fBshow-link\fR \fB-h\fR command.
.RE

.SS "Parseable Output Format"
.sp
.LP
Many \fBdladm\fR subcommands have an option that displays output in a machine-parseable format. The output format is one or more lines of colon (\fB:\fR) delimited fields. The fields displayed are specific to the subcommand used and are listed under the entry for the \fB-o\fR option for a given subcommand. Output includes only those fields requested by means of the \fB-o\fR option, in the order requested.
.sp
.LP
When you request multiple fields, any literal colon characters are escaped by a backslash (\fB\e\fR) before being output. Similarly, literal backslash characters will also be escaped (\fB\e\e\fR). This escape format is parseable by using shell \fBread\fR(1) functions with the environment variable \fBIFS=:\fR (see \fBEXAMPLES\fR, below). Note that escaping is not done when you request only a single field.
.SS "General Link Properties"
.sp
.LP
The following general link properties are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBautopush\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the set of STREAMS modules to push on the stream associated with a link when its DLPI device is opened. It is a space-delimited list of modules.
.sp
The optional special character sequence \fB[anchor]\fR indicates that a STREAMS anchor should be placed on the stream at the module previously specified in the list. It is an error to specify more than one anchor or to have an anchor first in the list.
.sp
The \fBautopush\fR property is preferred over the more general \fBautopush\fR(1M) command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBcpus\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Bind the processing of packets for a given data link to a processor or a set of processors. The value can be a comma-separated list of one or more processor ids or a range of ids. If the list consists of more than one processor, the processing will spread out to all the processors. Connection to processor affinity and packet ordering for any individual connection will be maintained.
.sp
The processor or set of processors are not exclusively reserved for the link. Only the kernel threads and interrupts associated with processing of the link are bound to the processor or the set of processors specified. In case it is desired that processors be dedicated to the link, \fBpsrset\fR(1M) can be used to create a processor set and then specifying the processors from the processor set to bind the link to.
.sp
If the link was already bound to processor or set of processors due to a previous operation, the binding will be removed and the new set of processors will be used instead.
.sp
The default is no CPU binding, which is to say that the processing of packets is not bound to any specific processor or processor set.
.sp
Specification of the \fBcpus\fR property is not allowed on links with a \fBpool\fR link property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBcpus-effective\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This read-only property displays the list of CPUs used for packet processing on the named data link.
.sp
If the \fBcpus\fR property has been set, \fBcpus-effective\fR will be the same.
.sp
If the \fBpool\fR property has been set, the \fBcpus-effective\fR will be selected from the pool designated by the administrator.
.sp
If neither the \fBpool\fR nor \fBcpus\fR property is set, the system will select the appropriate value for \fBcpus-effective\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrxfanout\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Allows you to specify the number of receive-side fanout threads.
.sp
Traffic received on a receive ring can be fanned out across multiple threads and processed in parallel. This is particularly useful when the system has large number of CPUs. This property is a count for the number of  receive-side fanout threads for a particular datalink. Note that this property lets an administrator specify the desired \fBrxfanout\fR. However, based on the number of available CPUs and hardware RX rings, the system might choose a different (smaller or even higher) value for fanout.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrxfanout-effective\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The number of CPUs is the upper bound on the receive side fanout while the number of \fBrxrings\fR is the lower bound. Thus, the actual receive-side fanout count can have a value different from the one set by the user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBlearn_limit\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Limits the number of new or changed MAC sources to be learned over a bridge link. When the number exceeds this value, learning on that link is temporarily disabled. Only non-VLAN, non-VNIC type links have this property.
.sp
The default value is \fB1000\fR. Valid values are greater or equal to 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBlearn_decay\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the decay rate for source changes limited by \fBlearn_limit\fR. This number is subtracted from the counter for a bridge link every 5 seconds. Only non-VLAN, non-VNIC type links have this property.
.sp
The default value is \fB200\fR. Valid values are greater or equal to 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBmac-address\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the primary MAC address for the data link. When set, changes the primary MAC address used by all current and future MAC clients of the underlying data link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBmaxbw\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the full duplex bandwidth for the link. The bandwidth is specified as an integer with one of the scale suffixes (\fBK\fR, \fBM\fR, or \fBG\fR for Kbps, Mbps, and Gbps). If no units are specified, the input value will be read as Mbps. The default is no bandwidth limit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpool\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Bind the processing of packets for a given data link to a pool of processors defined and administered by \fBpoolcfg\fR(1M) and \fBpooladm\fR(1M). The binding of processes is similar to what occurs with the \fBcpus\fR link property, except that the list of CPUs is not explicit and is instead maintained by the pools facility.
.sp
If pools are enabled, and no pool is specified for the link, \fBpool_default\fR will be used for packet processing.
.sp
For zones with \fBip-type=exclusive\fR, if a pool is specified through a pool zone property or \fBdedicated-cpus\fR allocation, that pool will also be used for all data links associated with the zone.
.sp
Specification of the \fBpool\fR property is not allowed on links with a \fBcpus\fR link property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpool-effective\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If the pools facility has been enabled, this read-only property displays the pool that is being used for packet processing. If the administrator has not assigned a pool to a data link, the pool will be \fBpool_default\fR.
.sp
If the pools facility is disabled, there is no effective pool and the value will be empty.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpriority\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the relative priority for the link. The value can be given as one of the tokens \fBhigh\fR, \fBmedium\fR, or \fBlow\fR. The default is \fBhigh\fR. This priority is not reflected in any protocol priority fields on the wire, but used for packet processing scheduling within the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrxringsavail\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A read-only property that specifies the number of rings available on the receive side.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrxrings\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the number of receive rings side for the MAC client. A value of \fBsw\fR means this MAC client should not be assigned any RX ring and will be software-based. A value of \fBhw\fR means this MAC client can get one RX ring, if available, or will be software-based. A non-zero value means reserve that many rings for this MAC client, if available, and fail if not. If this property is not specified, the MAC client can get one RX ring, if available, or will be software-based.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrxhwclntavail\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A read-only property that specifies the number of additional RX hardware-based MAC clients that can be created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtxringsavail\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A read-only property that specifies the number of rings available on the transmit side.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtxrings\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the number of transmit rings for the MAC client. A value of \fBsw\fR means this MAC client should not be assigned any TX ring. A value of \fBhw\fR means this MAC client can get one TX ring, if available, or will be software-based. A non-zero value means reserve that many rings for this MAC client, if available, and fail if not. If this property is not specified, the MAC client can get one TX ring, if available, or will be software-based.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtxhwclntavail\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A read-only property that specifics the number of additional TX hardware-based MAC clients that can be created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBstp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables or disables Spanning Tree Protocol on a bridge link. Setting this value to \fB0\fR disables Spanning Tree, and puts the link into forwarding mode with BPDU guarding enabled. This mode is appropriate for point-to-point links connected only to end nodes. Only non-VLAN, non-VNIC type links have this property. The default value is \fB1\fR, to enable STP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBforward\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables or disables forwarding for a VLAN. Setting this value to \fB0\fR disables bridge forwarding for a VLAN link. Disabling bridge forwarding removes that VLAN from the "allowed set" for the bridge. The default value is \fB1\fR, to enable bridge forwarding for configured VLANs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdefault_tag\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the default VLAN ID that is assumed for untagged packets sent to and received from this link. Only non-VLAN, non-VNIC type links have this property. Setting this value to \fB0\fR disables the bridge forwarding of untagged packets to and from the port. The default value is \fBVLAN ID 1\fR. Valid values values are from 0 to 4094. The default VLAN ID is also referred to as the Port VLAN Identifier (PVID).
.sp
You cannot create a tagged VLAN or VLAN-tagged VNIC link with a VLAN ID that matches the default VLAN value of the underlying link. All untagged packets on the link are already associated with the default VLAN (PVID). To successfully create a tagged VLAN or VLAN-tagged VNIC link with VLAN ID equal to the default VLAN value, you must first change the \fBdefault_tag\fR property of the underlying link to a different VLAN value.
.sp
When \fBdefault_tag=0\fR, all untagged packets on the link are no longer associated with any VLAN. As a result, you can create a VLAN link with any VLAN ID from 1 to 4094. Note that any received packets that are erroneously tagged with the PVID at an end-point might be dropped. This situation occurs if all the end-points on a given link do not agree on the PVID. All end-points on a link must use the same PVID and must not tag traffic with the PVID.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBstp_priority\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the STP and RSTP Port Priority value, which is used to determine the preferred root port on a bridge. Lower numerical values are higher priority. The default value is \fB128\fR. Valid values range from 0 to 255.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBstp_cost\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the STP and RSTP cost for using the link. The default value is \fBauto\fR, which sets the cost based on link speed, using \fB100\fR for 10Mbps, \fB19\fR for 100Mbps, \fB4\fR for 1Gbps, and \fB2\fR for 10Gbps. Valid values range from 1 to 65535.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBstp_edge\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables or disables bridge edge port detection. If set to \fB0\fR (false), the system assumes that the port is connected to other bridges even if no bridge PDUs of any type are seen. The default value is \fB1\fR, which detects edge ports automatically.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBstp_p2p\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets bridge point-to-point operation mode. Possible values are \fBtrue\fR, \fBfalse\fR, and \fBauto\fR. When set to \fBauto\fR, point-to-point connections are automatically discovered. When set to \fBtrue\fR, the port mode is forced to use point-to-point. When set to \fBfalse\fR, the port mode is forced to use normal multipoint mode. The default value is \fBauto\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBstp_mcheck\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Triggers the system to run the RSTP \fBForce BPDU Migration Check\fR procedure on this link. The procedure is triggered by setting the property value to \fB1\fR. The property is automatically reset back to \fB0\fR. This value cannot be set unless the following are true:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The link is bridged
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The bridge is protected by Spanning Tree
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The bridge \fBforce-protocol\fR value is at least 2 (RSTP)
.RE
The default value is 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBprotection\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables one or more types of link protection. Valid values are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBmac-nospoof\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
MAC address anti-spoof. An outbound packet's source MAC address must match the link's configured MAC address. Non-matching packets will be dropped. If the link belongs to a zone, turning \fBmac-nospoof\fR on will prevent the zone's owner from modifying the link's MAC address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBip-nospoof\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
IP address anti-spoof. This protection type works in conjunction with the link property \fBallowed-ips\fR.
.sp
\fBallowed-ips\fR is a list containing IP (IPv4 or IPv6) addresses. This list is empty by default. Addresses that are implicitly in this list are: the link local IPv6 address conforming to RFC 2464 (derived from the link's MAC address); IPv4/IPv6 addresses learned from DHCP replies; the unspecified (all-zeros) IPv4/IPv6 address.
.sp
An outbound IP packet can pass if its source address is in \fBallowed-ips\fR.
.sp
An outbound ARP packet can pass if its sender protocol address is in \fBallowed-ips\fR.
.sp
When a datalink has been protected by setting \fBallowed-ips\fR to a set of one or more IP addresses, any attempts to configure IP addresses that are not in this set will fail with an \fBEPERM\fR error being returned to the user. Moreover, the interface may not be used for forwarding IP packets, and attempts to set the \fBipadm\fR(1M) forwarding property on the interface will encounter an \fBEPERM\fR error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdhcp-nospoof\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
DHCP client ID (DUID for DHCPv6) and hardware address anti-spoof. This protection type works in conjunction with the link property \fBallowed-dhcp-cids\fR.
.sp
Items in the \fBallowed-dhcp-cids\fR list should be formatted in the same way as the \fBCLIENT_ID\fR field in the \fB/etc/default/dhcpagent\fR file. The only difference is that \fB\&.\fR (period) should be used in place of \fB,\fR (comma) when specifying DUIDs. See \fBdhcpagent\fR(1M) for details.
.sp
An outbound DHCP (v4/v6) packet can pass only if these conditions are satisfied:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If \fBallowed-dhcp-cids\fR is not configured and the packet type is:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
DHCPv4, the client ID field must match the configured MAC address.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
DHCPv6, the DUID must be of type 1 or 3 and the link layer address part of the DUID must match the configured MAC address.
.RE
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If \fBallowed-dhcp-cids\fR is configured and the packet type is:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
DHCPv4, the client ID field must match one of the IDs on this list or the configured MAC address.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
DHCPv6, the DUID field must match one of the IDs on this list or, the DUID must be of type 1 or 3 and the link layer address part of the DUID matches the configured MAC address.
.RE
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrestricted\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This protection restricts outgoing packet types to just IPv4, IPv6, and ARP.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBzone\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the zone to which the link belongs. This property can be modified only temporarily through \fBdladm\fR, and thus the \fB-t\fR option must be specified. To modify the zone assignment such that it persists across reboots, please use \fBzonecfg\fR(1M). Possible values consist of any exclusive-IP zone currently running on the system. By default, the zone binding is as per \fBzonecfg\fR(1M).
.RE

.SS "Wifi Link Properties"
.sp
.LP
The following \fBWiFi\fR link properties are supported. Note that the ability to set a given property to a given value depends on the driver and hardware.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBchannel\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the channel to use. This property can be modified only by certain \fBWiFi\fR links when in \fBIBSS\fR mode. The default value and allowed range of values varies by regulatory domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpowermode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the power management mode of the \fBWiFi\fR link. Possible values are \fBoff\fR (disable power management), \fBmax\fR (maximum power savings), and \fBfast\fR (performance-sensitive power management). Default is \fBoff\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBradio\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the radio mode of the \fBWiFi\fR link. Possible values are \fBon\fR or \fBoff\fR. Default is \fBon\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBspeed\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a fixed speed for the \fBWiFi\fR link, in megabits per second. The set of possible values depends on the driver and hardware (but is shown by \fBshow-linkprop\fR); common speeds include 1, 2, 11, and 54. By default, there is no fixed speed. 
.RE

.SS "Ethernet Link Properties"
.sp
.LP
The following MII Properties, as documented in \fBieee802.3\fR(5), are supported in read-only mode:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBduplex\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBstate\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBadv_autoneg_cap\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBadv_10gfdx_cap\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBadv_1000fdx_cap\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBadv_1000hdx_cap\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBadv_100fdx_cap\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBadv_100hdx_cap\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBadv_10fdx_cap\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBadv_10hdx_cap\fR
.RE
.sp
.LP
Each \fBadv_\fR property (for example, \fBadv_10fdx_cap\fR) also has a read/write counterpart \fBen_\fR property (for example, \fBen_10fdx_cap\fR) controlling parameters used at auto-negotiation. In the absence of Power Management, the \fBadv\fR* speed/duplex parameters provide the values that are both negotiated and currently effective in hardware. However, with Power Management enabled, the speed/duplex capabilities currently exposed in hardware might be a subset of the set of bits that were used in initial link parameter negotiation. Thus the MII \fBadv_\fR* parameters are marked read-only, with an additional set of \fBen_\fR* parameters for configuring speed and duplex properties at initial negotiation.
.sp
.LP
Note that the \fBadv_autoneg_cap\fR does not have an \fBen_autoneg_cap\fR counterpart: the \fBadv_autoneg_cap\fR is a 0/1 switch that turns off/on autonegotiation itself, and therefore cannot be impacted by Power Management.
.sp
.LP
In addition, the following Ethernet properties are reported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBflowctrl\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Establishes flow-control modes that will be advertised by the device. Valid input is one of:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBauto\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Flow control mode on the device is dynamically determined. To see the actual flow control mode set on the device, check the \fBflowctrl-effective\fR link property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBno\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No flow control enabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrx\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Receive, and act upon incoming pause frames.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtx\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Transmit pause frames to the peer when congestion occurs, but ignore received pause frames.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpfc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Transmit pause frames including the priority value of the traffic that should be paused. Receive pause frames, and act upon the traffic whose priority values are specified in the frame.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBbi\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Bidirectional flow control.
.RE

Note that the actual settings for this value are constrained by the capabilities allowed by the device and the link partner.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBgvrp-timeout\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies wait period between VID announcement broadcasts, in milliseconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBflowctrl-effective\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Actual flow-control mode configured on the device. When \fBflowctrl\fR property is set to \fBauto\fR, this indicates the flow control mode that is in effect. This is a read-only property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBmtu\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The maximum client SDU (Send Data Unit) supported by the device. Valid range is 68-65536.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBntcs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The number of Traffic Classes supported on the device. A device supporting extensions for DCB (Data Center Bridging) can support multiple traffic classes. This property can be used to determine if the device supports DCB extensions. This is a read-only property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpfcmap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This property is used to indicate the 802.1p priority values for which PFC (Priority-based flow control) is enabled. This is an 8-bit mask, in which an individual bit signifies whether PFC is enabled for the corresponding priority. For priorities that have PFC enabled, the device will transmit a pause frame for that priority in the event of congestion. This is relevant only if \fBntcs\fR is greater than zero and \fBflowctrl-effective\fR is \fBpfc\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBspeed\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
(read-only) The operating speed of the device, in Mbps.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtagmode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This link property controls the conditions in which 802.1Q VLAN tags will be inserted in packets being transmitted on the link. Two mode values can be assigned to this property:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnormal\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Insert a VLAN tag in outgoing packets under the following conditions:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The packet belongs to a VLAN.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The user requested priority tagging.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBvlanonly\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Insert a VLAN tag only when the outgoing packet belongs to a VLAN. If a tag is being inserted in this mode and the user has also requested a non-zero priority, the priority is honored and included in the VLAN tag.
.RE

The default value is \fBvlanonly\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBvlan-announce\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This property controls automatic VLAN ID anouncement. When enabled, it broadcasts the VIDs of any VNICs or VLANs configured on the device. It supports both physical links and aggregations. Possible values are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBoff\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No VID announcements will be sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBgvrp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Announcements sent using GVRP protocol, as defined in 802.1D. See \fBgvrp-timeout\fR to configure broadcast frequency.
.RE

.RE

.SS "InfiniBand Link Properties"
.sp
.LP
The following properties are supported only on IB partition object links.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBlinkmode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the link transport service type on an IB partition datalink. The default value is \fBcm\fR. Valid values are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBcm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Connected Mode. This mode uses a default MTU of 65520 and supports a maximum MTU of 65535 bytes. If Connected Mode is not available for a remote node, Unreliable Datagram mode will automatically be used instead.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBud\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unreliable Datagram Mode. This mode uses a default MTU of 2044 and supports a maximum MTU of 4092 bytes.
.RE

.RE

.SS "IP Tunnel Link Properties"
.sp
.LP
The following IP tunnel link properties are supported.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBhoplimit\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the IPv4 TTL or IPv6 hop limit for the encapsulating outer IP header of a tunnel link. This property exists for all tunnel types. The default value is 64.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBencaplimit\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the IPv6 encapsulation limit for an IPv6 tunnel as defined in RFC 2473. This value is the tunnel nesting limit for a given tunneled packet. The default value is 4. A value of 0 disables the encapsulation limit.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRConfiguring an Aggregation
.sp
.LP
To configure a data-link over an aggregation of devices \fBbge0\fR (linkname \fBnet0\fR) and \fBbge1\fR (linkname \fBnet1\fR) with key 1, enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-aggr -d net0 -d net1 1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRConnecting to a WiFi Link
.sp
.LP
To connect to the most optimal available unsecured network on a system with a single \fBWiFi\fR link (as per the prioritization rules specified for \fBconnect-wifi\fR), enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm connect-wifi\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRCreating a WiFi Key
.sp
.LP
To interactively create the \fBWEP\fR key \fBmykey\fR, enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-secobj -c wep mykey\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Alternatively, to non-interactively create the \fBWEP\fR key \fBmykey\fR using the contents of a file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBumask 077\fR
 # \fBcat >/tmp/mykey.$$ <<EOF\fR
 \fB12345\fR
 \fBEOF\fR
 # \fBdladm create-secobj -c wep -f /tmp/mykey.$$ mykey\fR
 # \fBrm /tmp/mykey.$$\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRConnecting to a Specified Encrypted WiFi Link
.sp
.LP
To use key \fBmykey\fR to connect to \fBESSID\fR \fBwlan\fR on link \fBath0\fR, enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm connect-wifi -k mykey -e wlan ath0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRChanging a Link Property
.sp
.LP
To set \fBpowermode\fR to the value \fBfast\fR on link \fBpcwl0\fR, enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm set-linkprop -p powermode=fast pcwl0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6 \fRConnecting to a WPA-Protected WiFi Link
.sp
.LP
Create a WPA key \fBpsk\fR and enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-secobj -c wpa psk\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To then use key \fBpsk\fR to connect to ESSID \fBwlan\fR on link \fBath0\fR, enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm connect-wifi -k psk -e wlan ath0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 7 \fRRenaming a Link
.sp
.LP
To rename the \fBbge0\fR link to \fBmgmt0\fR, enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm rename-link bge0 mgmt0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 8 \fRReplacing a Network Card
.sp
.LP
Consider that the \fBbge0\fR device, whose link was named \fBmgmt0\fR as shown in the previous example, needs to be replaced with a \fBce0\fR device because of a hardware failure. The \fBbge0\fR NIC is physically removed, and replaced with a new \fBce0\fR NIC. To associate the newly added \fBce0\fR device with the \fBmgmt0\fR configuration previously associated with \fBbge0\fR, enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm rename-link ce0 mgmt0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 9 \fRRemoving a Network Card
.sp
.LP
Suppose that in the previous example, the intent is not to replace the \fBbge0\fR NIC with another NIC, but rather to remove and not replace the hardware. In that case, the \fBmgmt0\fR datalink configuration is not slated to be associated with a different physical device as shown in the previous example, but needs to be deleted. Enter the following command to delete the datalink configuration associated with the \fBmgmt0\fR datalink, whose physical hardware (\fBbge0\fR in this case) has been removed:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm delete-phys mgmt0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 10 \fRUsing Parseable Output to Capture a Single Field
.sp
.LP
The following assignment saves the MTU of link \fBnet0\fR to a variable named \fBmtu\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmtu=`dladm show-link -p -o mtu net0`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 11 \fRUsing Parseable Output to Iterate over Links
.sp
.LP
The following script displays the state of each link on the system.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-link -p -o link,state | while IFS=: read link state; do
            print "Link $link is in state $state"
        done\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 12 \fRConfiguring VNICs
.sp
.LP
Create two VNICs with names \fBhello0\fR and \fBtest1\fR over a single physical link \fBbge0\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-vnic -l bge0 hello0\fR
# \fBdladm create-vnic -l bge0 test1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 13 \fRConfiguring VNICs and Allocating Bandwidth and Priority
.sp
.LP
Create two VNICs with names \fBhello0\fR and \fBtest1\fR over a single physical link \fBbge0\fR and make \fBhello0\fR a high priority VNIC with a factory-assigned MAC address with a maximum bandwidth of 50 Mbps. Make \fBtest1\fR a low priority VNIC with a random MAC address and a maximum bandwidth of 100Mbps.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-vnic -l bge0 -m factory -p maxbw=50,priority=high hello0\fR
# \fBdladm create-vnic -l bge0 -m random -p maxbw=100M,priority=low test1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 14 \fRConfiguring a VNIC with a Factory MAC Address
.sp
.LP
First, list the available factory MAC addresses and choose one of them:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-phys -m bge0\fR
LINK            SLOT         ADDRESS              INUSE    CLIENT
net0            primary      0:e0:81:27:d4:47     yes      net0
net0            1            8:0:20:fe:4e:a5      no
net0            2            8:0:20:fe:4e:a6      no
net0            3            8:0:20:fe:4e:a7      no
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Create a VNIC named \fBhello0\fR and use slot 1's address:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-vnic -l bge0 -m factory -n 1 hello0\fR
# \fBdladm show-phys -m bge0\fR
LINK            SLOT         ADDRESS              INUSE    CLIENT
net0            primary      0:e0:81:27:d4:47     yes      net0
net0            1            8:0:20:fe:4e:a5      yes      hello0
net0            2            8:0:20:fe:4e:a6      no
net0            3            8:0:20:fe:4e:a7      no
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 15 \fRCreating a VNIC with User-Specified MAC Address, Binding it to Set of Processors
.sp
.LP
Create a VNIC with name \fBhello0\fR, with a user specified MAC address, and a processor binding \fB0, 2, 4-6\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-vnic -l bge0 -m 8:0:20:fe:4e:b8 -p cpus=0,2,4-6 hello0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 16 \fRCreating a Virtual Network Without a Physical NIC
.sp
.LP
First, create an etherstub with name \fBstub1\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-etherstub stub1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Create two VNICs with names \fBhello0\fR and \fBtest1\fR on the etherstub. This operation implicitly creates a virtual switch connecting \fBhello0\fR and \fBtest1\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-vnic -l stub1 hello0\fR
# \fBdladm create-vnic -l stub1 test1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 17 \fRDisplaying Bridge Information
.sp
.LP
The following commands use the \fBshow-bridge\fR subcommand with no and various options.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-bridge\fR
BRIDGE       PROTECT ADDRESS           PRIORITY DESROOT
foo          stp     32768/8:0:20:bf:f 32768    8192/0:d0:0:76:14:38
bar          stp     32768/8:0:20:e5:8 32768    8192/0:d0:0:76:14:38

# \fBdladm show-bridge -l foo\fR
LINK         STATE        UPTIME   DESROOT
hme0         forwarding   117      8192/0:d0:0:76:14:38
qfe1         forwarding   117      8192/0:d0:0:76:14:38

# \fBdladm show-bridge -s foo\fR
BRIDGE       DROPS        FORWARDS
foo          0            302

# \fBdladm show-bridge -ls foo\fR
LINK         DROPS     RECV      XMIT
hme0         0         360832    31797
qfe1         0         322311    356852

# \fBdladm show-bridge -f foo\fR
DEST              AGE     FLAGS  OUTPUT
8:0:20:bc:a7:dc   10.860  --     hme0
8:0:20:bf:f9:69   --      L      hme0
8:0:20:c0:20:26   17.420  --     hme0
8:0:20:e5:86:11   --      L      qfe1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 18 \fRCreating an IPv4 Tunnel
.sp
.LP
The following sequence of commands creates and then displays a persistent IPv4 tunnel link named \fBmytunnel0\fR between 66.1.2.3 and 192.4.5.6:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-iptun -T ipv4 -a local=66.1.2.3,remote=192.4.5.6 mytunnel0\fR
# \fBdladm show-iptun mytunnel0\fR
LINK            TYPE  FLAGS  SOURCE              DESTINATION
mytunnel0       ipv4  --     66.1.2.3            192.4.5.6
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
A point-to-point IP interface can then be created over this tunnel link:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBipadm create-ip mytunnel0\fR
# \fBipadm create-addr -T static -a local=10.1.0.1,remote=10.1.0.2 \e\fR
\fBmytunnel0/addr\fR
# \fBipadm show-addr mytunnel0/addr\fR
ADDROBJ           TYPE     STATE        ADDR
mytunnel0/addr    static   ok           10.1.0.1->10.1.0.2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 19 \fRCreating a 6to4 Tunnel
.sp
.LP
The following command creates a 6to4 tunnel link. The IPv4 address of the 6to4 router is 75.10.11.12.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-iptun -T 6to4 -a local=75.10.11.12 sitetunnel0\fR
# \fBdladm show-iptun sitetunnel0\fR
LINK            TYPE  FLAGS  SOURCE              DESTINATION
sitetunnel0     6to4  --     75.10.11.12         --
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following command creates an IPv6 interface on this tunnel:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBipadm create-ip sitetunnel0\fR
# \fBipadm show-addr sitetunnel0/_a\fR
ADDROBJ           TYPE     STATE        ADDR
sitetunnel0/_a    static   ok           2002:4b0a:b0c::1/16
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Note that the system automatically configures the IPv6 address on the 6to4 IP interface. See \fBipadm\fR(1M) for a description of how IPv6 addresses are configured on 6to4 tunnel links.

.LP
\fBExample 20 \fRUsing Link Protection
.sp
.LP
To enable link protection:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm set-linkprop \e\fR
\fB-p protection=mac-nospoof,restricted,ip-nospoof,dhcp-nospoof vnic0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To disable link protection:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm reset-linkprop -p protection vnic0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To modify the \fBallowed-ips\fR list:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm set-linkprop -p allowed-ips=10.0.0.1,10.0.0.2 vnic0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To modify the \fBallowed-dhcp-cids\fR list:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm set-linkprop -p allowed-dhcp-cids=hello vnic0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To display the resulting configuration:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-linkprop -p protection,allowed-ips vnic0\fR

LINK     PROPERTY         PERM   VALUE        DEFAULT   POSSIBLE
vnic0    protection       rw     mac-nospoof, --        mac-nospoof,
                                 restricted,            restricted,
                                 ip-nospoof,            ip-nospoof,
                                 dhcp-nospoof           dhcp-nospoof

vnic0    allowed-ips      rw     10.0.0.1,    --        --
                                 10.0.0.2

vnic0    allowed-dhcp-cids rw    hello        --        --
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 21 \fRCreating an IB Partition
.sp
.LP
The following command creates a partition \fBffff.ibp0\fR with partition key \fB0xffff\fR on the physical link \fBibp0\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-part -P ffff -l ibp0 ffff.ibp0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 22 \fRDisplaying IB Partition Information
.sp
.LP
The following command displays IB partition information.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-part\fR
LINK         PKEY OVER         STATE    FLAGS
ffff.ibp0    FFFF ibp0         up       ----
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 23 \fRDisplaying IB Data Links Information
.sp
.LP
The following command displays IB data links information.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-ib\fR
LINK         HCAGUID         PORTGUID        PORT STATE  PKEYS
ibp0         3BA000100CD7C   3BA000100CD7D   1    down   FFFF
ibp1         3BA000100CD7C   3BA000100CD7E   2    down   FFFF
ibp3         5AD0000033634   5AD0000033636   2    up     FFFF,8001
ibp2         5AD0000033634   5AD0000033635   1    up     FFFF,8001
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 24 \fRDeleting a Partition
.sp
.LP
The following command deletes the partition \fBffff.ibp0\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm delete-part ffff.ibp0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 25 \fRUsing \fBshow-link\fR to Display Partition Information
.sp
.LP
The following command uses the \fBshow-link\fR subcommand to display partition information.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-link\fR
LINK        CLASS     MTU    STATE    OVER
e1000g0     phys      1500   up       --
e1000g1     phys      1500   unknown  --
ibp0        phys      65520  down     --
ibp3        phys      65520  up       --
ibp2        phys      65520  up       --
ibp1        phys      65520  down     --
pffff.ibp0  part      2044   down     ibp0
p8001.ibp2  part      65520  unknown  ibp2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 26 \fRDisplaying Links in All Zones from the Global Zone
.sp
.LP
The \fBshow-link\fR command shown below displays data links in all zones from the global zone. Links that are not in the global zone are displayed with the zonename prefix followed by the slash (\fB/\fR) separator.

.sp
.LP
In this example, \fBnet0\fR is a VNIC created in the global zone, \fBzone1/net0\fR is an automatically created VNIC for \fBzone1\fR, and \fBzone2/net0\fR is an automatically created VNIC for \fBzone2\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-link\fR
LINK                CLASS     MTU    STATE    OVER
e1000g0             phys      1500   up       --
e1000g1             phys      8170   unknown  --
e1000g2             phys      1500   unknown  --
e1000g3             phys      1500   unknown  --
net0                vnic      1500   up       e1000g0
zone1/net0          vnic      1500   up       e1000g0
zone2/net0          vnic      1500   up       e1000g0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 27 \fRDisplaying Links in the Global Zone
.sp
.LP
The following \fBshow-link\fR command displays data links in the global zone only.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-link -z global\fR
LINK                CLASS     MTU    STATE    OVER
e1000g0             phys      1500   up       --
e1000g1             phys      8170   unknown  --
e1000g2             phys      1500   unknown  --
e1000g3             phys      1500   unknown  --
net0                vnic      1500   up       e1000g0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 28 \fRDisplaying Links for a Specified Zone
.sp
.LP
The following \fBshow-link\fR command displays data links in a specific, non-global zone.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-link -z zone1\fR
LINK                CLASS     MTU    STATE    OVER
zone1/net0          vnic      1500   up       e1000g0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 29 \fRDisplaying Links for a Specified Zone from the Global Zone
.sp
.LP
The following \fBshow-link\fR command displays, from the global zone, data links in a specific, non-global zone.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-link -z zone1\fR
LINK                CLASS     MTU    STATE    OVER
zone1/net0          vnic      1500   up       e1000g0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 30 \fRDisplaying Links in a Non-Global Zone
.sp
.LP
The following \fBshow-link\fR shown below is invoked from \fBzone1\fR and displays only data links for that zone.

.sp
.LP
Note that, in \fBshow-link\fR output, the \fBzone1/\fR prefix is not displayed. The prefix is not displayed because the command was invoked from within the zone.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBzlogin zone1\fR
# \fBdladm show-link -z zone1\fR
LINK                CLASS     MTU    STATE    OVER
net0                vnic      1500   up       ?
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 31 \fRUsing -Z Option to Display the Current Zone
.sp
.LP
The command below presumes the following conditions:

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The link \fBnet1\fR is currently assigned to \fBzoneA\fR. The entries \fBnet1\fR and \fBzoneA/net1\fR represents the same link. The \fBZONE\fR column for these two entries is the same and is the name of the zone to which the link is currently assigned.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The link \fBnet2\fR is not assigned to any non-global zone.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The link \fBzoneB/net2\fR is an automatic VNIC created for \fBzoneB\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The link \fBzoneC/net2\fR is an automatic VNIC created for \fBzoneC\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The link \fBzoneD/net2\fR is an IP tunnel created inside \fBzoneD\fR. Unlike for \fBnet1\fR, each entry for \fBnet2\fR represents a different link. The \fBZONE\fR column for these entries is different.
.RE
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-link -Z\fR
LINK        ZONE      CLASS     MTU    STATE    OVER
e1000g0     global    phys      1500   up       --
e1000g1     global    phys      1500   up       --
net1        zoneA     vnic      1500   up       e1000g0
zoneA/net1  zoneA     vnic      1500   up       e1000g0
net2        global    vnic      1500   up       e1000g1
zoneB/net2  zoneB     vnic      1500   up       e1000g1
zoneC/net2  zoneC     vnic      1500   up       e1000g1
zoneD/net2  zoneD     iptun     65515  up       --
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.LP
\fB/usr/sbin\fR
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.sp
.LP
\fB/sbin\fR
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.sp
.LP
Note that, for both \fB/usr/sbin\fR and \fB/sbin\fR, the \fB-s\fR and \fB-i\fR options to the \fBshow-aggr\fR, \fBshow-link\fR and \fBshow-vnic\fR subcommands are Committed Obsolete.
.sp
.LP
Note that, for both \fB/usr/sbin\fR and \fB/sbin\fR, \fBshow-linkprop\fR's *\fBeffective\fR properties have an interface stability of Volatile.
.sp
.LP
Note that the bridge-related subcommands, described with \fBdladm\fR subcommands above, require installation of the \fBpkg://solaris/network/bridging\fR package.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBacctadm\fR(1M), \fBautopush\fR(1M), \fBdhcpagent\fR(1M), \fBdlstat\fR(1M), \fBifconfig\fR(1M), \fBipadm\fR(1M), \fBipsecconf\fR(1M), \fBndd\fR(1M), \fBpooladm\fR(1M), \fBpoolcfg\fR(1M), \fBpsrset\fR(1M), \fBvrrpadm\fR(1M), \fBwpad\fR(1M), \fBzonecfg\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBieee802.3\fR(5), \fBdlpi\fR(7P)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The preferred method of referring to an aggregation in the aggregation subcommands is by its link name. Referring to an aggregation by its integer \fIkey\fR is supported for backward compatibility, but is not necessary. When creating an aggregation, if a \fIkey\fR is specified instead of a link name, the aggregation's link name will be automatically generated by \fBdladm\fR as \fBaggr\fR\fIkey\fR.
