'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH flowadm 1M "8 Jul 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
flowadm \- administer bandwidth resource control for protocols, services, containers, and virtual machines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBflowadm show-flow\fR [\fB-P\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR] [\fIflow\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBflowadm add-flow\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR \fB-a\fR \fIattr\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]] \fIflow\fR
\fBflowadm remove-flow\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] {\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR | \fIflow\fR}
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBflowadm set-flowprop\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...] \fIflow\fR
\fBflowadm reset-flowprop\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR[,...]] \fIflow\fR
\fBflowadm show-flowprop\fR [\fB-P\fR] [[\fB-c\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR[,...]] [\fIflow\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBflowadm\fR command is used to create, modify, remove, and show networking bandwidth and associated resources for a type of traffic on a particular link.
.sp
.LP
The \fBflowadm\fR command allows users to manage networking bandwidth resources for a transport, service, or a subnet. The service is specified as a combination of transport and local port. The subnet is specified by its IP address and subnet mask. The command can be used on any type of data link, including physical links, virtual NICs, and link aggregations.
.sp
.LP
A flow is defined as a set of attributes based on Layer 3 and Layer 4 headers, which can be used to identify a protocol, service, or a virtual machine. When a flow is identified based on flow attributes, separate kernel resources including layer 2, 3, and 4 queues, their processing threads, and other resources are uniquely created for it, such that other traffic has minimal or zero impact on it.
.sp
.LP
Inbound and outbound packet are matched to flows in a very fast and scalable way, so that limits can be enforced with minimal performance impact.
.sp
.LP
The \fBflowadm\fR command can be used to identify a flow without imposing any bandwidth resource control. This would result in the traffic type getting its own resources and queues so that it is isolated from rest of the networking traffic for more observable and deterministic behavior.
.sp
.LP
Flows can be created, modified, and removed in both global and non-global zones. A zone administrator can create a flow only in his zone, global or non-global. However, a flow created in the global zone can migrate to a non-global zone, as described in the following paragraph. An administrator can modify or remove a flow only from within the zone, global or non-global, in which the flow was created. From the global zone, one can view all flows on a system, within the global and any non-global zones. From a non-global zone, one can view only those flows in that zone.
.sp
.LP
After an administrator creates a flow in the global zone, the data link associated with that flow can be assigned to a non-global zone. In such a case, the associated flow is also assigned to the same non-global zone. When this non-global zone is halted, the data link and its associated flow return to the global zone.
.sp
.LP
Different zone names distinguish flows of the same name. For example, one can have three flows named \fBfastpak\fR, if each \fBfastpak\fR is in a different zone. For example, \fBzone1\fR/\fBfastpak\fR, \fBzone2\fR/\fBfastpak\fR, and \fBzone3\fR/\fBfastpak\fR are all valid zone names.
.sp
.LP
\fBflowadm\fR is implemented as a set of subcommands with corresponding options. Options are described in the context of each subcommand.
.SH SUB-COMMANDS
.sp
.LP
The following subcommands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBflowadm show-flow\fR [\fB-pP\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR] [\fIflow\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show flow configuration information (the default) or statistics, either for all flows, all flows on a link, or for the specified \fIflow\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field name must be one of the fields listed below, or a special value \fBall\fR, to display all fields. For each flow found, the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBflow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the flow.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the link the flow is on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBipaddr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
IP address of the flow. This can be either local or remote depending on how the flow was defined.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtransport\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the layer for protocol to be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBport\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Local port of service for flow.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdsfield\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Differentiated services value for flow and mask used with \fBDSFIELD\fR value to state the bits of interest in the differentiated services field of the IP header.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display persistent flow property information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIlink\fR | \fIflow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display information for all flows on the named link or information for the named flow.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBflowadm add-flow\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR \fB-a\fR \fIattr\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...] \fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...] \fIflow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Adds a flow to the system. The flow is identified by its flow attributes and properties.
.sp
As part of identifying a particular flow, its bandwidth resource can be limited. If no bandwidth limit is specified, the traffic still gets its unique layer 2, 3, and 4 queues and processing threads, including NIC hardware resources (when supported), so that the selected traffic can be separated from others and can flow with minimal impact from other traffic.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The changes are temporary and will not persist across reboots. Persistence is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an alternate root directory where \fBflowadm\fR should apply persistent creation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the link to which the flow will be added.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fIattr\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...], \fB--attr\fR=\fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of attributes to be set to the specified values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...], \fB--prop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to be set to the specified values.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBflowadm remove-flow\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR {\fIlink\fR | \fIflow\fR}\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove an existing flow identified by its link or name.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The changes are temporary and will not persist across reboots. Persistence is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an alternate root directory where \fBflowadm\fR should apply persistent removal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR | \fIflow\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIlink\fR | \fIflow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If a link is specified, remove all flows from that link. If a single flow is specified, remove only that flow.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBflowadm set-flowprop\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...] \fIflow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set values of one or more properties on the flow specified by name. The complete list of properties can be retrieved using the \fBshow-flow\fR subcommand.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The changes are temporary and will not persist across reboots. Persistence is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an alternate root directory where \fBflowadm\fR should apply persistent setting of properties.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...], \fB--prop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to be set to the specified values.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBflowadm reset-flowprop\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-p\fR [\fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]] \fIflow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Resets one or more properties to their default values on the specified flow. If no properties are specified, all properties are reset. See the \fBshow-flowprop\fR subcommand for a description of properties, which includes their default values.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the resets are temporary. Temporary resets last until the next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an alternate root directory where \fBflowadm\fR should apply persistent setting of properties.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...], \fB--prop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to be reset.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBflowadm show-flowprop\fR [\fB-cP\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR[,...]] [\fIflow\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the current or persistent values of one or more properties, either for all flows, flows on a specified link, or for the specified flow.
.sp
By default, current values are shown. If no properties are specified, all available flow properties are displayed. For each property, the following fields are displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBFLOW\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the flow.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPROPERTY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBVALUE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The current (or persistent) property value. The value is shown as \fB--\fR (double hyphen), if it is not set, and \fB?\fR (question mark), if the value is unknown. Persistent values that are not set or have been reset will be shown as \fB--\fR and will use the system \fBDEFAULT\fR value (if any).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The default value of the property. If the property has no default value, \fB--\fR (double hyphen), is shown.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPOSSIBLE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of the values the property can have. If the values span a numeric range, the minimum and maximum values might be shown as shorthand. If the possible values are unknown or unbounded, \fB--\fR (double hyphen), is shown.
.RE

Flow properties are documented in the "Flow Properties" section, below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display persistent flow property information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR[,...], \fB--prop\fR=\fIprop\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to show.
.RE

.RE

.SS "Flow Attributes"
.sp
.LP
The flow operand that identifies a flow in a \fBflowadm\fR command is a comma-separated list of one or more keyword, value pairs from the list below.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBlocal_ip\fR[\fB/\fR\fIprefix_len\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Identifies a network flow by the local IP address. \fIvalue\fR must be a IPv4 address in dotted-decimal notation or an IPv6 address in colon-separated notation. \fIprefix_len\fR is optional.
.sp
If \fIprefix_len\fR is specified, it describes the netmask for a subnet address, following the same notation convention of \fBifconfig\fR(1M) and \fBroute\fR(1M) addresses. If unspecified, the given IP address will be considered as a host address for which the default prefix length for a IPv4 address is \fB/32\fR and for IPv6 is \fB/128\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBremote_ip\fR[\fB/\fR\fIprefix_len\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Identifies a network flow by the remote IP address. The syntax is the same as \fBlocal_ip\fR attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtransport\fR={\fBtcp\fR|\fBudp\fR|\fBsctp\fR|\fBicmp\fR|\fBicmpv6\fR}\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Identifies a layer 4 protocol to be used. It is typically used in combination with \fBlocal_port\fR or \fBremote_port\fR to identify the local or remote service that needs special attention.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBlocal_port\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Identifies a service specified by the local port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBremote_port\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Identifies a service specified by the remote port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdsfield\fR[\fB:\fR\fIdsfield_mask\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Identifies the 8-bit differentiated services field (as defined in RFC 2474).
.sp
The optional \fIdsfield_mask\fR is used to state the bits of interest in the differentiated services field when comparing with the \fBdsfield\fR value. A \fB0\fR in a bit position indicates that the bit value needs to be ignored and a \fB1\fR indicates otherwise. The mask can range from \fB0x01\fR to \fB0xff\fR. If \fIdsfield_mask\fR is not specified, the default mask \fB0xff\fR is used. Both the \fBdsfield\fR value and mask must be in hexadecimal.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following types of combinations of attributes are supported:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
local_ip[/\fIprefixlen\fR]=\fIaddress\fR
remote_ip[/\fIprefixlen\fR]=\fIaddress\fR
transport={tcp|udp|sctp|icmp|icmpv6}
transport={tcp|udp|sctp},local_port=\fIport\fR
transport={tcp|udp|sctp},remote_port=\fIport\fR
dsfield=\fIval\fR[:\fIdsfield_mask\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
On a given link, the combinations above are mutually exclusive. An attempt to create flows of different combinations will fail.
.SS "Restrictions"
.sp
.LP
There are individual flow restrictions and flow restrictions per zone.
.SS "Individual Flow Restrictions"
.sp
.LP
Restrictions on individual flows do not require knowledge of other flows that have been added to the link.
.sp
.LP
An attribute can be listed only once for each flow. For example, the following command is not valid:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm add-flow -l vnic1 -a local_port=80,local_port=8080 httpflow\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\fBtransport\fR and \fBlocal_port\fR or \fBtransport\fR and \fBremote_port\fR:
.sp
.LP
TCP, UDP, or SCTP flows can be specified with a local port or with a remote port. An ICMP or ICMPv6 flow that specifies a port is not allowed.
.sp
.LP
If either \fBlocal_port\fR or \fBremote_port\fR is specifed, the transport must be either TCP, UDP or SCTP.
.sp
.LP
The following commands are valid:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm add-flow -l e1000g0 -a transport=udp udpflow\fR
# \fBflowadm add-flow -l e1000g0 -a transport=tcp,local_port=80 \e
udp80flow\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following commands are not valid:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm add-flow -l e1000g0 -a remote_port=25 flow25\fR
# \fBflowadm add-flow -l e1000g0 -a transport=icmpv6,remote_port=16 \e
flow16\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "Flow Restrictions Per Zone"
.sp
.LP
Within a zone, no two flows can have the same name. After adding a flow with the link specified, the link will not be required for display, modification, or deletion of the flow.
.SS "Flow Properties"
.sp
.LP
The following flow properties are supported. Note that the ability to set a given property to a given value depends on the driver and hardware.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBmaxbw\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the full duplex bandwidth for the flow. The bandwidth is specified as an integer with one of the scale suffixes(\fBK\fR, \fBM\fR, or \fBG\fR for Kbps, Mbps, and Gbps). If no units are specified, the input value will be read as Mbps. The default is no bandwidth limit.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRCreating a Policy Around a Mission-Critical Port
.sp
.LP
The command below creates a policy around inbound HTTPS traffic on an HTTPS server so that HTTPS obtains dedicated NIC hardware and kernel TCP/IP resources. The name specified, \fBhttps-1\fR, can be used later to modify or delete the policy.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm add-flow -l bge0 -a transport=TCP,local_port=443 https-1\fR
# \fBflowadm show-flow -l bge0\fR
FLOW         LINK         IP ADDR            PROTO  PORT  RPORT   DSFLD
https1       bge0         --                 tcp    443   --      --
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRModifying an Existing Policy to Add Bandwidth Resource Control
.sp
.LP
The following command modifies the \fBhttps-1\fR policy from the preceding example. The command adds bandwidth control.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm set-flowprop -p maxbw=500M https-1\fR
# \fBflowadm show-flow https-1\fR
FLOW         LINK         IP ADDR            PROTO  PORT  RPORT   DSFLD
https1       bge0         --                 tcp    443   --      --

# \fBflowadm show-flowprop https-1\fR
FLOW        PROPERTY    VALUE     DEFAULT      POSSIBLE
https-1     maxbw       500       --           --
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRLimiting the UDP Bandwidth Usage
.sp
.LP
The following command creates a policy for UDP protocol so that it cannot consume more than 100Mbps of available bandwidth. The flow is named \fBlimit-udp-1\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm add-flow -l bge0 -a transport=UDP -p maxbw=100M, \e
limit-udp-1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRSetting Policy, Making Use of \fBdsfield\fR Attribute
.sp
.LP
The following command sets a policy for EF PHB (DSCP value of 101110 from RFC 2598) with a bandwidth of 500 Mbps. The \fBdsfield\fR value for this flow will be \fB0x2e\fR (101110) with the \fBdsfield_mask\fR being \fB0xfc\fR (because we want to ignore the 2 least significant bits).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm add-flow -l bge0 -a dsfield=0x2e:0xfc \e
-p maxbw=500M efphb-flow\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRViewing Flows in Multiple Zones
.sp
.LP
The following command shows two flows of the same name. The first flow is in the global zone, the second is in the zone \fBzone1\fR. The command is invoked from the global zone, enabling you to view all flows on the system

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm show-flow\fR
FLOW        LINK        IPADDR            PROTO  LPORT   RPORT   DSFLD
tcpflow     e1000g2     --                tcp    --      --      --
zone1/tcpflow e1000g1   --                tcp    --      --      --
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
All actions were performed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/network
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBacctadm\fR(1M), \fBdladm\fR(1M), \fBflowstat\fR(1M), \fBifconfig\fR(1M), \fBprstat\fR(1M), \fBroute\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBdlpi\fR(7P)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBshow-usage\fR subcommand, present in previous releases of \fBflowadm\fR, has been replaced by the \fBflowstat\fR(1M) \fB-h\fR command.
