'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH hal-get-property 1M "16 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
hal-get-property, hal-set-property \- get and set HAL device properties
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBhal-get-property\fR \fB--udi\fR \fIudi\fR \fB--key\fR \fIkey\fR [\fB--help\fR] [\fB--verbose\fR]
 [\fB--version\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBhal-set-property\fR  \fB--udi\fR \fIudi\fR \fB--key\fR \fIkey\fR {\fB--int\fR \fIvalue\fR |  \fB--uint64\fR \fIvalue\fR
 |  \fB--string\fR \fIvalue\fR |  \fB--bool\fR \fIvalue\fR |  \fB--strlist-pre\fR \fIvalue\fR
 |  \fB--strlist-post\fR \fIvalue\fR |  \fB--strlist-rem\fR \fIvalue\fR |  \fB--double\fR \fIvalue\fR
 |  \fB--remove\fR \fIvalue\fR} [\fB--help\fR] [\fB--version\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL) provides a view of the various hardware attached to a system. This view is updated dynamically as hardware configuration changes by means of hotplug or other mechanisms. HAL represents a piece of hardware as a device object. A device object is identified by a unique identifer and carries a set of key/value pairs, referred to as device properties. Some properties are derived from the actual hardware, some are merged from device information files (\fB\&.fdi\fR files), and some are related to the actual device configuration.
.sp
.LP
The \fBhal-get-property\fR and \fBhal-set-property\fR commands allow you to get and set properties of hardware that conforms to HAL specifications.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported: 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--udi\fR \fIudi\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unique device ID.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--key\fR \fIkey\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Key of the property to set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--int\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set value to an integer. Accepts decimal or hexadecimal value prefixed with \fB0x\fR or \fBx\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--uint64\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set value to an integer. Accepts decimal or hexadecimal value prefixed with \fB0x\fR or \fBx\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--string\fR \fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set value to a string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--double\fR \fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set value to a floating point number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--boolean\fR \fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set value to a boolean, that is, true or false
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--strlist-pre\fR \fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prepend a string to a list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--strlist-post\fR \fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Append a string to a list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--strlist-rem\fR \fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove a string from a list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--remove\fR \fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the property should be removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--version\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display version and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB--help\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display list of options and exit
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/hal
_
Interface StabilityVolatile
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBhald\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBhal\fR(5)
