'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH iicpshd 1M "16 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
iicpshd \- copy Availability Suite Point-in-Time shadow volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBiicpshd\fR [\fB-s\fR] \fIold_shadow\fR \fInew_shadow\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBiicpshd\fR command copies an Availability Suite Instant Image shadow volume, updating the bit map header and Availability Suite configuration to reflect the new shadow volume.
.sp
.LP
No checks on the current use of either the old or new shadow volumes are made. The \fBiicpshd\fR command should only be run when the Instant Image shadow set using the old shadow volume is suspended.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The \fBiicpshd\fR command supports the following option:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Update the StorageTek configuration information for the Point-in-Time shadow set, but do \fBnot\fR copy data from the old shadow volume to the new shadow volume.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
A \fBiicpshd\fR command line has the following operands:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIold_shadow\fR \fInew_shadow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBiicpshd\fR copies the data of the old Availability Suite Instant Image shadow volume to the new shadow volume and updates the bit map header and configuration data.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitystorage/avs/avs-point-in-time-copy
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBiiadm\fR(1M), \fBiicpbmp\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
\fBiicpshd\fR should be run only when the system is in single-user mode. When you run \fBiicpshd\fR, the command makes no attempt to check if a Point-in-Time set is in use. Running \fBiicpshd\fR with the \fB-s\fR flag while Point-in-Time is using the old shadow volume can result in shadow volume data loss. If you use the \fB-s\fR option, you must manually copy the data on the old shadow volume to the new shadow volume.
