'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH ilbd 1M "9 Nov 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
ilbd \- ILB daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/inet/ilbd\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Integrated Load Balancer (ILB) daemon, \fBilbd\fR, provides user-level services for the ILB. It is a system daemon started by the Service Management Facility (see \fBsmf\fR(5)). Its fault management resource identifier (FMRI) is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/loadbalancer/ilb:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Note that \fBilbd\fR is a Consolidation Private interface. See \fBattributes\fR(5).
.sp
.LP
\fBilbd\fR provides no administrative interface. All ILB administration should be done through \fBilbadm\fR(1M) or the programming library \fBlibilb\fR(3LIB).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The \fBilbd\fR daemon has no options.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fREnabling the ILB Service
.sp
.LP
The following command enables the ILB service:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvcadm enable svc:/network/loadbalancer/ilb:default\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRDisabling the ILB Service
.sp
.LP
The following command disables the ILB service:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvcadm disable svc:/network/loadbalancer/ilb:default\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBilbd\fR daemon uses \fBsyslog\fR(3C) to report status and error messages. All of the messages are logged with the \fBLOG_DAEMON\fR facility. Error messages are logged with the \fBLOG_ERR\fR and \fBLOG_NOTICE\fR priorities, and informational messages are logged with the \fBLOG_INFO\fR priority. The default entries in the \fB/etc/syslog.conf\fR file log all of the \fBilbd\fR daemon error messages to the \fB/var/adm/messages\fR log.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/inet/ilbd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
ILB daemon binary
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/network/load-balancer/ilb
_
Interface StabilityProject Private
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBilbadm\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBsyslog\fR(3C), \fBlibilb\fR(3LIB), \fBsyslog.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBilbd\fR service is managed by the service management facility, \fBsmf\fR(5), under the fault management resource identifier (FMRI):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/loadbalancer/ilb:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command. To administer the service, the authorization \fBsolaris.smf.manage.ilb\fR must be granted. Alternatively, the rights profile "ILB Management" can be granted.
.sp
.LP
The ILB service must be enabled for the \fBilbadm\fR(1M) command and any other \fBlibilb\fR(3LIB) client applications to function properly.
