'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH in.daytimed 1M "16 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
in.daytimed \- UDP or TCP daytime protocol service daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBin.daytimed\fR 
.fi

.LP
.nf
FMRI \fIsvc\fR:/internet/daytime:default
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
FMRI stands for Fault Management Resource Identifier. It is used to identify resources managed by the Fault Manager. See \fBfmd\fR(1M) and \fBsmf\fR(5).
.sp
.LP
The \fBin.daytimed\fR service provides the server-side of the daytime protocol. This protocol is used for debugging and bandwidth measurement and is available on both TCP and UDP transports, through port 13.
.sp
.LP
The \fBin.daytimed\fR service is an \fBinetd\fR(1M) \fBsmf\fR(5) delegated service. The \fBin.daytimed\fR detects which transport is requested by examining the socket it is passed by the \fBinetd\fR daemon.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBTCP-based service\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
Once a connection is established, the \fBin.daytimed\fR generates the current date and time in \fBctime\fR(3C) format as 7-bit ASCII and sends it through the connection. The server then closes the connection. Any data received from the client side of the connection is discarded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBUDP-based service\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
The \fBin.daytimed\fR listens for UDP datagrams. When a datagram is received, the server generates the current date and time in \fBctime\fR(3C) format as 7-bit ASCII and inserts it in a UDP datagram sent in response to the client's request. Any received data is ignored.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/network/legacy-network-services
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
RFC 867
