'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH in.echod 1M "16 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
in.echod \- UDP or TCP echo protocol service daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBin.echod\fR 
.fi

.LP
.nf
FMRI \fIsvc\fR:/internet/echo:default
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
FMRI stands for Fault Management Resource Identifier. It is used to identify resources managed by the Fault Manager. See \fBfmd\fR(1M) and \fBsmf\fR(5).
.sp
.LP
The \fBin.echod\fR service provides the server-side of the echo protocol. This protocol is used for debugging and bandwidth measurement and is available on both TCP and UDP transports, through port 7.
.sp
.LP
The \fBin.echod\fR service is an \fBinetd\fR(1M) \fBsmf\fR(5) delegated service. The \fBin.echod\fR detects which transport is requested by examining the socket it is passed by the \fBinetd\fR daemon.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBTCP-based service\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
Once a connection is established, the \fBin.echod\fR echoes any data received from the client back to the client. The server echoes data until the client program terminates the connection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBUDP-based service\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
The \fBin.echod\fR listens for UDP datagrams. When a datagram is received, the server creates a UDP datagram containing the data it received and sends it to the client.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/network/legacy-network-services
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
RFC 862
