'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T 
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH in.fingerd 1M "1 Feb 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
in.fingerd, fingerd \- remote user information server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/in.fingerd\fR [\fB-s\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBfingerd\fR implements the server side of the Name/Finger protocol, specified in \fIRFC 742\fR. The Name/Finger protocol provides a remote interface to programs which display information on system status and individual users. The protocol imposes little structure on the format of the exchange between client and server. The client provides a single command line to the finger server which returns a printable reply.
.sp
.LP
\fBfingerd\fR waits for connections on \fBTCP\fR port 79. Once connected, it reads a single command line terminated by RETURN-LINEFEED and passes the arguments to \fBfinger\fR(1), prepended with \fB-s\fR. \fBfingerd\fR closes its connections as soon as the output is finished.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
\fBfingerd\fR supports the following option.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Enable secure mode. Deny forwarding of queries to other remote hosts.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/adm/utmpx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
User and accounting information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/passwd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
System password file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/adm/lastlog\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
Last login times.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.plan\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
User's plans.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.project\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
User's projects.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
\fBfingerd\fR and \fBin.fingerd\fR are IPv6-enabled. See \fBip6\fR(7P).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/network/network-servers
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfinger\fR(1), \fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBinetadm\fR(1M), \fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5), \fBip6\fR(7P)
.sp
.LP
Harrenstien, Ken, \fIRFC 742, NAME/FINGER\fR, Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park, Calif., December 1977.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Connecting directly to the server from a \fBTIP\fR or an equally narrow-minded TELNET-protocol user program can result in meaningless attempts at option negotiation being sent to the server, which foul up the command line interpretation. \fBfingerd\fR should be taught to filter out \fBIAC\fR's and perhaps even respond negatively (\fBIAC\fR does not) to all option commands received.
.sp
.LP
The \fBin.fingerd\fR service is managed by the service management facility, \fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/finger:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). Responsibility for initiating and restarting this service is delegated to \fBinetd\fR(1M). Use \fBinetadm\fR(1M) to make configuration changes and to view configuration information for this service. The service's status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
