'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH in.timed 1M "16 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
in.timed \- UDP or TCP time protocol service daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBin.timed\fR 
.fi

.LP
.nf
FMRI \fIsvc\fR:/internet/time:default
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
FMRI stands for Fault Management Resource Identifier. It is used to identify resources managed by the Fault Manager. See \fBfmd\fR(1M) and \fBsmf\fR(5).
.sp
.LP
The \fBin.timed\fR service provides the server-side of the time protocol. The time server sends to requestors the time in seconds since midnight, January 1, 1900. The time protocol is available on both TCP and UDP transports through port 37.
.sp
.LP
The in.timed service is an \fBinetd\fR(1M) \fBsmf\fR(5) delegated service. The \fBin.timed\fR detects which transport is requested by examining the socket it is passed by the \fBinetd\fR daemon.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBTCP-based service\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
Once a connection is established, the \fBin.timed\fR sends the time as a 32-bit binary number and closes the connection. Any received data is ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBUDP-based service\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
The \fBin.timed\fR listens for UDP datagrams. When a datagram is received, the server generates a UDP datagram containing the time as a 32-bit binary number and sends it to the client. Any received data is ignored.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/network/legacy-network-services
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
RFC 868
