'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH installgrub 1M "31 Mar 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
installgrub \- install GRUB in a disk partition
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/installgrub\fR [\fB-fm\fR] \fIstage1\fR \fIstage2\fR \fIraw-device\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBinstallgrub\fR command is an x86-only program. GRUB stands for GRand Unified Bootloader.
.sp
.LP
\fBinstallgrub\fR installs GRUB stage 1 and stage 2 files on the boot area of a disk partition. If you specify the \fB-m\fR option, \fBinstallgrub\fR installs the stage 1 file on the master boot sector of the disk.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The \fBinstallgrub\fR command accepts the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Suppresses interaction when overwriting the master boot sector.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Installs GRUB \fIstage1\fR on the master boot sector interactively. You must use this option if Solaris is installed on an extended partition.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The \fBinstallgrub\fR command accepts the following operands:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIstage1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
The name of the GRUB stage 1 file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIstage2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
The name of the GRUB stage 2 file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIraw-device\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
The name of the device onto which GRUB code is to be installed. It must be a character device that is readable and writable. For disk devices, specify the slice where the GRUB menu file is located. (For Solaris it is the root slice.) 
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRInstalling GRUB on a Hard Disk Slice
.sp
.LP
The following command installs GRUB on a system where the root slice is \fBc0d0s0\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# /usr/sbin/installgrub /boot/grub/stage1 \e
         /boot/grub/stage2 /dev/rdsk/c0d0s0
.fi
.in -2

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/boot/grub\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Directory where GRUB files reside.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBboot\fR(1M), \fBfdisk\fR(1M), \fBfmthard\fR(1M), \fBkernel\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
Installing GRUB on the master boot sector (\fB-m\fR option) overrides any boot manager currently installed on the machine. The system will always boot the GRUB in the Solaris partition regardless of which \fBfdisk\fR partition is active.
