'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH kcfd 1M "30 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
kcfd \- kernel-level cryptographic framework daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBkcfd\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBkcfd\fR daemon helps in managing CPU usage by cryptographic operations performed in software by kernel threads. The system utilization associated with these threads is charged to the \fBkcfd\fR process. It also does module verification for kernel cryptographic modules.
.sp
.LP
Only a privileged user can run this daemon.
.sp
.LP
The \fBkcfd\fR daemon is automatically invoked in run level 1, after \fB/usr\fR is mounted. A previously invoked \fBkcfd\fR daemon that is still running must be stopped before invoking another \fBkcfd\fR command.
.sp
.LP
Manually starting and restarting \fBkcfd\fR is not recommended. If it is necessary to do so, use the \fBcryptoadm\fR(1M) \fBstart\fR and \fBstop\fR subcommands.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Daemon started successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB> 1\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
Daemon failed to start.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcryptoadm\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
