'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH mkfile 1M "3 Sep 2010" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
mkfile \- create a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmkfile\fR [\fB-nv\fR] \fIsize\fR [t | g | k | b | m] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBmkfile\fR creates one or more files that are suitable for use as \fBNFS-mounted\fR swap areas, or as local swap areas. When a root user executes \fBmkfile()\fR, the sticky bit is set and the file is padded with zeros by default. When non-root users execute \fBmkfile()\fR, they must manually set the sticky bit using \fBchmod\fR(1). The default \fBsize\fR is in bytes, but it can be flagged as terabytes, gigabytes, kilobytes, blocks, or megabytes, with the \fBt\fR, \fBg\fR, \fBk\fR, \fBb\fR, or \fBm\fR suffixes, respectively. Suffixes can be uppercase or lowercase.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Create an empty \fIfilename\fR. The size is noted, but disk blocks are not allocated until data is written to them. Files created with this option cannot be swapped over local UFS mounts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Verbose. Report the names and sizes of created files.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Success.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBmkfile\fR when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBchmod\fR(1), \fBswap\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5)
