'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH mkfifo 1M "28 Jul 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
mkfifo \- make FIFO special file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/mkfifo\fR [\fB-m\fR \fImode\fR] \fIpath\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmkfifo\fR utility creates the \fBFIFO\fR special files named by its argument list. The arguments are taken sequentially, in the order specified; and each \fBFIFO\fR special file is either created completely or, in the case of an error or signal, not created at all.
.sp
.LP
If errors are encountered in creating one of the special files, \fBmkfifo\fR writes a diagnostic message to the standard error and continues with the remaining arguments, if any.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmkfifo\fR utility calls the library routine \fBmkfifo\fR(3C), with the \fIpath\fR argument is passed as the \fIpath\fR argument from the command line, and  \fImode\fR is set to the equivalent of \fBa=rw\fR, modified by the current value of the file mode creation mask \fBumask\fR(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fImode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Set the file permission bits of the newly-created \fBFIFO\fR to the specified \fImode\fR value. The \fImode\fR option-argument will be the same as the \fImode\fR operand defined for the \fBchmod\fR(1) command. In <\fIsymbolic\fRmode> strings, the \fIop\fR characters \fB+\fR and \fB\(mi\fR will be interpreted relative to an assumed initial mode of \fBa=rw\fR.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
A path name of the \fBFIFO\fR special file to be created.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBmkfifo\fR when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (2^31 bytes).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the execution of \fBmkfifo\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
All the specified \fBFIFO\fR special files were created successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBchmod\fR(1), \fBumask\fR(1), \fBmkfifo\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
