'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH modload 1M "1 Dec 1993" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
modload \- load a kernel module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmodload\fR [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIexec_file\fR] \fIfilename\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmodload\fR command loads the loadable module  \fIfilename\fR into the running system. 
.sp
.LP
\fIfilename\fR is an object file produced by \fBld \fR\fB-r\fR. If  \fIfilename\fR is an absolute pathname then the file specified by that absolute path is loaded. If  \fIfilename\fR does not begin with a slash (\fB/\fR), then the path to load  \fIfilename\fR is relative to the current directory unless the  \fB-p\fR option is specified. 
.sp
.LP
The kernel's \fBmodpath\fR variable can be set using the \fB/etc/system\fR file. The default value of the kernel's \fBmodpath\fR variable is set to the path where the operating system was loaded.  Typically this is \fB/kernel /usr/kernel\fR.
.sp
.LP
For example, the following command looks for \fB\&./drv/foo\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBmodload drv/foo\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following command looks for \fB/kernel/drv/foo\fR and then \fB/usr/kernel/drv/foo\fR: 
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBmodload -p drv/foo\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fI exec_file\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Specify the name of a shell script or  executable image file that is executed after the module is successfully loaded.  The first argument passed is the module ID (in decimal). The other argument is module specific. The module specific information is: the block and character major numbers for drivers, the system call number for system calls, or, for  other module types, the index into the appropriate kernel table. See  \fBmodinfo\fR(1M)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Use the kernel's internal modpath variable as the search path for the module.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBld\fR(1), \fBadd_drv\fR(1M), \fBkernel\fR(1M), \fBmodinfo\fR(1M), \fBmodunload\fR(1M), \fBsystem\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBmodldrv\fR(9S), \fBmodlinkage\fR(9S), \fBmodlstrmod\fR(9S), \fBmodule_info\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR 
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Use \fBadd_drv\fR(1M) to add device drivers, not \fBmodload\fR. See \fI\fR for procedures on adding device drivers.
