'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH mountd 1M "19 Aug 2010" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
mountd \- server for NFS mount requests and NFS access checks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/nfs/mountd\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-r\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBmountd\fR is an \fBRPC\fR server that answers requests for \fBNFS\fR access information and file system mount requests. It reads the file \fB/etc/dfs/sharetab\fR to determine which file systems are available for mounting by which remote machines. See \fBsharetab\fR(4). \fBnfsd\fR running on the local server will contact \fBmountd\fR the first time an \fBNFS\fR client tries to access the file system to determine whether the client should get read-write, read-only, or no access. This access can be dependent on the security mode used in the remoted procedure call from the client. See \fBshare_nfs\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
The command also provides information as to what file systems are mounted by which clients. This information can be printed using the \fBshowmount\fR(1M) command.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmountd\fR daemon is automatically invoked by \fBshare\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
Only super user can run the \fBmountd\fR daemon.
.SS "SMF Management"
.sp
.LP
Since \fBmountd\fR must be running for \fBnfsd\fR to function properly, \fBmountd\fR is automatically started by the \fBsvc:/network/nfs/server\fR service.
.sp
.LP
Startup SMF parameters for \fBmountd\fR can be manipulated using the \fBsharectl\fR(1M) command. The currently supported parameters are:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBclient_versmin\fR=\fInum\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBclient_versmax\fR=\fInum\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The NFS client uses only NFS versions in the range specified by these variables. Valid values or versions are: \fB2\fR, \fB3\fR, and \fB4\fR. By default, these variables are unspecified (commented out) and the client's default minimum is Version \fB2\fR. The default maximum is version \fB4\fR. You can override this range on a per-mount basis by using the \fB-o\fR \fBvers=\fR option to \fBmount_nfs\fR(1M).
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The options shown below are supported for NVSv2/v3 clients. They are not supported for Solaris NFSv4 clients.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Reject mount requests from clients. Clients that have file systems mounted will not be affected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Run the command in verbose mode. Each time \fBmountd\fR determines what access a client should get, it will log the result to the console, as well as how it got that result.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/dfs/sharetab\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
shared file system table
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/file-system/nfs
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmount_nfs\fR(1M), \fBnfsd\fR(1M), \fBshare\fR(1M), \fBshare_nfs\fR(1M), \fBsharectl\fR(1M), \fBshowmount\fR(1M), \fBsharetab\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Some routines that compare hostnames use case-sensitive string comparisons; some do not. If an incoming request fails, verify that the case of the hostname in the file to be parsed matches the case of the hostname called for, and attempt the request again.
