'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH netstrategy 1M "31 Mar 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
netstrategy \- return network configuration information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/netstrategy\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBnetstrategy\fR command determines the network configuration strategy in use on a system and returns information in a form that is easily consumable by a script. The command returns three tokens:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fI<root filesystem type>\fR \fI<primary interface>\fR \fI<network config strategy>\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
These tokens are described as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fI<root filesystem type>\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Type of filesystem that contains the bootable kernel, as would be specified in the \fIfstype\fR column of the \fBmnttab\fR(4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fI<primary interface>\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Name of the primary network interface.  For a diskless machine, this is the interface used to load the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fI<network config strategy>\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The means by which a system obtains its IP address for booting. This can be one of \fBrarp\fR, \fBdhcp\fR, or \fBnone\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBnetstrategy\fR command is not intended for use on a command line.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The \fBnetstrategy\fR command has no options.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Success.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB!=0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBifconfig\fR(1M), \fBmnttab\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
