'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH nscadm 1M "16 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
nscadm \- network storage control utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnscadm\fR freeze \fIdevice\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnscadm\fR unfreeze \fIdevice\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnscadm\fR isfrozen \fIdevice\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBnscadm\fR command performs several network storage control functions.
.sp
.LP
The \fBnscadm\fR \fBfreeze\fR command closes existing references to the specified device, and blocks future accesses. This allows maintenance of virtual volume device drivers (for example, RAID 0, RAID 1, RAID 5) to be performed without shutting down the system.
.sp
.LP
The \fBnscadm\fR \fBunfreeze\fR command reverses the effects of \fBnscadm\fR \fBfreeze\fR for the specified device.
.sp
.LP
The \fBnscadm\fR \fBisfrozen\fR command returns the current status of the specified device.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The \fBnscadm\fR command supports the following option.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Display the usage menu.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The \fBnscadm\fR command line supports the following operand.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdevice\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the storage device to be acted upon by \fBnscadm\fR.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
For the \fBfreeze\fR and \fBunfreeze\fR, subcommands \fBnscadm\fR returns the following exit values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Success
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB255\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Error
.RE

.sp
.LP
For the \fBisfrozen\fR subcommand, \fBnscadm\fR returns the following exit values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Device is currently frozen.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Device is not currently frozen.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB255\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Error
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitystorage/avs/avs-cache-management
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBscmadm\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
