'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH rpc.rstatd 1M "4 Nov 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
rpc.rstatd, rstatd \- kernel statistics server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/netsvc/rstat/rpc.rstatd\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc.rstatd\fR is a server which returns performance statistics obtained from the kernel. \fBrup\fR(1) uses \fBrpc.rstatd\fR to collect the \fBuptime\fR information that it displays.
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc.rstatd\fR is an RPC service.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/network/network-servers
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBrup\fR(1), \fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBinetadm\fR(1M), \fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBservices\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBrpc.rstatd\fR service is managed by the service management facility, \fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/rpc/rstat:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). Responsibility for initiating and restarting this service is delegated to \fBinetd\fR(1M). Use \fBinetadm\fR(1M) to make configuration changes and to view configuration information for this service. The service's status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
