'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH rpc.rwalld 1M "4 Nov 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
rpc.rwalld, rwalld \- network rwall server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/netsvc/rwall/rpc.rwalld\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc.rwalld\fR is a server that handles \fBrwall\fR(1M) requests. It is implemented by calling \fBwall\fR(1M) on all the appropriate network machines. The \fBrpc.rwalld\fR daemon may be started by \fBinetd\fR(1M).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/network/network-servers
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBinetadm\fR(1M), \fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBrwall\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBwall\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBrpc.rwalld\fR service is managed by the service management facility, \fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/rpc/wall:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). Responsibility for initiating and restarting this service is delegated to \fBinetd\fR(1M). Use \fBinetadm\fR(1M) to make configuration changes and to view configuration information for this service. The service's status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
