'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH rpc.sprayd 1M "4 Nov 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
rpc.sprayd, sprayd \- spray server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/netsvc/spray/rpc.sprayd\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc.sprayd\fR is a server that records the packets sent by \fBspray\fR(1M). The \fBrpc.sprayd\fR daemon may be started by \fBinetd\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
The service provided by \fBrpc.sprayd\fR is not useful as a networking benchmark as it uses unreliable connectionless transports, (udp for example). It can report a large number of packets dropped when the drops were caused by the program sending packets faster than they can be buffered locally (before the packets get to the network medium).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/network/network-servers
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBinetadm\fR(1M), \fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBspray\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBrpc.sprayd\fR service is managed by the service management facility, \fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/rpc/spray:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). Responsibility for initiating and restarting this service is delegated to \fBinetd\fR(1M). Use \fBinetadm\fR(1M) to make configuration changes and to view configuration information for this service. The service's status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
