'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH rquotad 1M "6 Apr 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
rquotad \- remote quota server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/nfs/rquotad\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBrquotad\fR is an \fBrpc\fR(4) server which returns quotas for a user of a local file system which is mounted by a remote machine over the \fBNFS.\fR The results are used by \fBquota\fR(1M) to display user quotas for remote file systems. The \fBrquotad\fR daemon is normally invoked by \fBinetd\fR(1M). 
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBrquotad\fR when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (2^31 bytes).
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBquotas\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
quota file at a UFS file system root
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/file-system/nfs
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBautomountd\fR(1M), \fBinetadm\fR(1M), \fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBmount_nfs\fR(1M), \fBquota\fR(1M), \fBshare_nfs\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBrpc\fR(4), \fBservices\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIInstalling Oracle Solaris 11 Systems\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBrquotad\fR service is managed by the service management facility, \fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/nfs/rquota
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). Responsibility for initiating and restarting this service is delegated to \fBinetd\fR(1M). Use \fBinetadm\fR(1M) to make configuration changes and to view configuration information for this service. The service's status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
.sp
.LP
If it is disabled, it is enabled by \fBmount_nfs\fR(1M), \fBshare_nfs\fR(1M), and \fBautomountd\fR(1M) unless its \fBapplication/auto_enable\fR property is set to \fBfalse\fR.
