'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH showmount 1M "6 Apr 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
showmount \- show remote mounts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/showmount\fR [\fB-ade\fR] [\fIhostname\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBshowmount\fR lists the clients that have remotely mounted a filesystem from \fIhost\fR. This information is maintained by the \fBmountd\fR(1M) server on \fIhost\fR, and is saved across crashes in the file \fB/etc/rmtab\fR. The default value for \fIhost\fR is the value returned by \fBhostname\fR(1).
.sp
.LP
The \fBshowmount\fR command does not display the names of NFS Version 4 clients.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Print all remote mounts in the format: 
.sp
\fBhostname\fR \fB: directory\fR
.sp
where \fBhostname\fR is the name of the client, and \fBdirectory\fR is the root of the file system that has been mounted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
List directories that have been remotely mounted by clients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Print the list of shared file systems.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/rmtab\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/file-system/nfs
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBhostname\fR(1), \fBmountd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIInstalling Oracle Solaris 11 Systems\fR
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
If a client crashes, its entry is removed from the list of remote mounts on the server.
