'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH smtp-notify 1M "16 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
smtp-notify \- email notification daemon for software events
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/fm/notify/smtp-notify\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBsmtp-notify\fR is a daemon that subscribes to software events and Fault Management lifecycle events and produces email notifications based on a set of notification preferences that are stored in the SMF service configuration repository.
.sp
.LP
Email notification preferences are set using \fBsvccfg\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
\fBsmtp-notify\fR is managed by the service management facility, \fBsmf\fR(5), under the service FMRI:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/fm/smtp-notify:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
.SS "Properties"
.sp
.LP
The following service properties can be set:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBconfig/rootdir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This is an \fBastring\fR property that defaults to \fB/\fR. When set, the specified root directory will be used for all pathnames evaluated by \fBsmtp-notify\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
By default, the body of the email event notification will be based on a set of localized message templates that are delivered with the Oracle Solaris operating system. \fBsmtp-notify\fR will lookup the appropriate template (based on the event class) and fill in the template using elements from the event payload.
.sp
.LP
A user-supplied message body template can be substituted by specifying the \fBmsg_template\fR notification preference. Refer to \fBsvccfg\fR(1M) for more information about setting notification preferences on a per-service or per-event-class basis.
.sp
.LP
The message body template can contain the expansion macros listed below. These macros will be expanded by \fBsmtp-notify\fR before sending the message.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Macro          Description
-----          -----------
%%              expands to a literal % character
%<HOSTNAME>     expands to the hostname on which the event
                occurred
%<URL>          expands to the URL of the knowledge article
                associated with this event
%<CLASS>        expands to the event class
%<UUID>         expands to the UUID of the event
%<CODE>         expands to the knowledge article message ID
%<SEVERITY>     expands to the severity of the event
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
For SMF service state transition events, the following additional macros can be specified in a message template:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
%<FMRI>          expands to FMRI of the affected service
%<FROM-STATE>    expands to the previous state of the service
%<TO-STATE>      expands to the new state of the service
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To facilitate email filtering, \fBsmtp-notify\fR will create X-headers for the following components of the event payload for all event classes:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Header name             Value
-----------             -----
X-FMEV-HOSTNAME         the name of the host on which the
                        event occurred
X-FMEV-CLASS            the event class
X-FMEV-CODE             the Knowledge article message ID
X-FMEV-SEVERITY         the severity of the event
X-FMEV-UUID             the UUID of the event
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
SMF service state transition events will also include the following additional X-headers:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Header name             Value
-----------             -----
X-FMEV-FMRI             the FMRI of the affected SMF service
X-FMEV-FROM-STATE       the previous state of the service
X-FMEV-TO-STATE         the new state of the service
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRConfiguring Notification Preferences
.sp
.LP
The following command configures notification preferences for SMF service state transition events.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvccfg -s svc:/system/svc/global:default setnotify -g \e\fR
\fBfrom-online,to-maintenance mailto:admin@somehost.com\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fREnabling Email Notifications
.sp
.LP
The following command enables email notifications for Fault Management problem diagnosis events.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvccfg setnotify problem-diagnosed mailto:admin@somehost.com\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRListing Notification Settings
.sp
.LP
The following command lists all notification settings for Fault Management problem diagnosis events.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvccfg listnotify problem-diagnosed\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/fault-management/smtp-notify
_
Interface StabilityUnstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBsvccfg\fR(1M), \fBsyslogd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
