'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH uadmin 1M "31 Mar 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
uadmin \- administrative control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/uadmin\fR \fIcmd\fR \fIfcn\fR [\fImdep\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBuadmin\fR command provides control for basic administrative functions. This command is tightly coupled to the system administration procedures and is not intended for general use. It may be invoked only by the super-user.
.sp
.LP
Both the \fIcmd\fR (command) and \fIfcn\fR (function) arguments are converted to integers and passed to the \fBuadmin\fR system call. The optional \fImdep\fR (machine dependent) argument is only available for the \fIcmd\fR values of \fB1\fR (\fBA_REBOOT\fR), \fB2\fR (\fBA_SHUTDOWN\fR), or \fB5\fR (\fBA_DUMP\fR). For any other \fIcmd\fR value, no \fImdep\fR command-line argument is allowed.
.sp
.LP
When passing an \fImdep\fR value that contains whitespaces, the string must be grouped together as a single argument enclosed within quotes, for example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uadmin 1 1 "\fB-s\fR kernel/unix"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBhalt\fR(1M), \fBreboot\fR(1M), \fBuadmin\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
Shutting down or halting the system by means of \fBuadmin\fR does not  update the  boot  archive.  Avoid  using  this command after
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
editing of files such as \fB/etc/system\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
installing new driver binaries or kernel binaries
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
updating existing driver binaries or kernel binaries.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Use \fBreboot\fR(1M) or \fBhalt\fR(1M) instead.
