'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.TH uucheck 1M "18 May 1993" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
uucheck \- check the uucp directories and permissions file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/uucp/uucheck\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-x\fR \fIdebug-level\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBuucheck\fR checks for the presence of the \fBuucp\fR system required files and directories. \fBuucheck\fR also does error checking of the \fBPermissions\fR file (\fB/etc/uucp/Permissions\fR).
.sp
.LP
\fBuucheck\fR is executed during package installation. \fBuucheck\fR can only be used by the super-user or \fBuucp\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Give a detailed (verbose) explanation of how the  \fBuucp\fR programs will interpret the \fBPermissions\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fI debug-level\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Produce debugging output on the standard output. \fIdebug-level\fR is a number from \fB0\fR to \fB9\fR.  Higher numbers give more detailed debugging information.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/uucp/Devices\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/uucp/Limits\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/uucp/Permissions\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/uucp/Systems\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool/locks/*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool/uucp/*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool/uucppublic/*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/network/uucp
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBuucp\fR(1C), \fBuustat\fR(1C), \fBuux\fR(1C), \fBuucico\fR(1M), \fBuusched\fR(1M), \fBattributes \fR(5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
The program does not check file/directory modes or some errors in the \fBPermissions\fR file such as duplicate login or machine name.
