'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.TH volcopy_ufs 1M "15 Apr 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
volcopy_ufs \- make an image copy of a ufs file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBvolcopy\fR [\fB-F\fR ufs] [\fIgeneric_options\fR] \fIfsname\fR \fIsrcdevice\fR \fIvolname1\fR \fIdestdevice\fR \fIvolname2\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBvolcopy\fR makes a literal copy of the \fBufs\fR file system using a blocksize matched to the device.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIgeneric_options\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
.rt  
options supported by the generic  \fBvolcopy\fR command. See  \fBvolcopy\fR(1M).
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfsname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
represents the mount point (for example, \fBroot\fR, \fBu1\fR, etc.) of the file system being copied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrcdevice\fR or \fIdestdevice\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
the disk partition specified using the raw device (for example, \fB/dev/rdsk/cld0s8\fR, \fB/dev/rdsk/cld1s8\fR, etc.).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrcdevice\fR and \fIvolname1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
the device and physical volume from which the copy of the file system is being extracted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdestdevice\fR and \fIvolname2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
the target device and physical volume.
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fIfsname\fR and \fIvolname\fR are limited to six or fewer characters and recorded in the superblock. \fIvolname\fR may be `\fB\(mi\fR\&' to use the existing volume name.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Successful file system copy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnon-zero\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
An error has occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/adm/filesave.log\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
a record of file systems/volumes copied
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcpio\fR(1), \fBdd\fR(1M), \fBlabelit\fR(1M), \fBvolcopy\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBufs\fR(7FS)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBvolcopy\fR does not support copying to tape devices. Use \fBdd\fR(1M) for copying to and from tape devices.
