'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2001, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH ldap_get_entry_controls 3LDAP "23 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_get_entry_controls \- get the LDAP controls included with a directory entry in a set of search results
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-l\fRldap [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR] 
#include <ldap.h>

\fBint\fR \fBldap_get_entry_controls\fR(\fBLDAP *\fR\fIld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage *\fR\fIentry\fR,
     \fBLDAPControl ***\fR\fIserverctrlsp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBldap_get_entry_controls()\fR function retrieves the LDAP v3 controls included in a directory entry in a chain of search results. The LDAP controls are specified in an array of \fBLDAPControl\fR structures. Each \fBLDAPControl\fR structure represents an LDAP control. The function takes \fIentry\fR as a parameter, which points to an \fBLDAPMessage\fR structure that represents an entry in a chain of search results.
.sp
.LP
The entry notification controls that are used with persistent search controls are the only controls that are returned with individual entries. Other controls are returned with results sent from the server. You can call \fBldap_parse_result()\fR to retrieve those controls.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_get_entry_controls()\fR returns the following error codes.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLDAP_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
LDAP controls were successfully retrieved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLDAP_DECODING_ERROR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
An error occurred when decoding the BER-encoded message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLDAP_PARAM_ERROR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
An invalid parameter was passed to the function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLDAP_NO_MEMORY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Memory cannot be allocated.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_error\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_parse_result\fR(3LDAP), \fBattributes\fR(5)
