'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2001, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH ldap_memfree 3LDAP "23 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_memfree \- free memory allocated by LDAP API functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-l\fRldap [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR]
#include < lber.h>
#include < ldap.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBldap_memfree\fR(\fBvoid *\fR\fIp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBldap_memfree()\fR function frees the memory allocated by certain LDAP API functions that do not have corresponding functions to free memory. These functions include \fBldap_get_dn\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_first_attribute\fR(3LDAP), and \fBldap_next_attribute\fR(3LDAP). 
.sp
.LP
The \fBldap_memfree()\fR function takes one parameter, \fIp\fR, which is a pointer to the memory to be freed.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
A pointer to the memory to be freed.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
There are no return values for the \fBldap_memfree()\fR function.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined for the \fBldap_memfree()\fR function.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBldap\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_first_attribute\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_get_dn\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_next_attribute\fR(3LDAP), \fBattributes\fR(5)
