'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2001, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH ldap_ber_free 3LDAP "23 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_ber_free \- free a BerElement structure from memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR \fIflag\&.\|.\|.\fR \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-l\fRldap [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR] 
#include <ldap.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBldap_ber_free\fR(\fBBerElement *\fR\fIber\fR, \fBint\fR \fIfreebuf\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
You can make a call to the \fBldap_ber_free()\fR function to free \fBBerElement\fR structures allocated by \fBldap_first_attribute()\fR and by \fBldap_next_attribute()\fR function calls. When freeing structures allocated by these functions, specify 0 for the \fIfreebuf\fR argument. The \fBldap_first_attribute()\fR and by \fBldap_next_attribute()\fR functions do not allocate the extra buffer in the \fBBerElement\fR structure.
.sp
.LP
For example, to retrieve attributes from a search result entry, you need to call the \fBldap_first_attribute()\fR function. A call to this function  allocates a \fBBerElement\fR structure, which is used to help track the current attribute. When you are done working with the attributes, this structure should be freed from memory, if it still exists.
.sp
.LP
This function is deprecated . Use the \fBber_free()\fR function instead.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBber_free\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_first_attribute\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_next_attribute\fR(3LDAP), \fBattributes\fR(5)
