'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH ldap_abandon 3LDAP "23 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_abandon \- abandon an LDAP operation in progress
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc[ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lldap[ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBint\fR \fBldap_abandon\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBint\fR \fImsgid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBldap_abandon()\fR function is used to abandon or cancel an LDAP operation in progress.  The \fImsgid\fR passed should be the message id of an outstanding LDAP operation, as returned by \fBldap_search\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_modify\fR(3LDAP), etc.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_abandon\fR(\|) checks to see if the result of the operation has already come in.  If it has, it deletes it from the queue of pending messages.  If not, it sends an LDAP abandon operation to the the LDAP server.
.sp
.LP
The caller can expect that the result of an abandoned operation will not be returned from a future call to \fBldap_result\fR(3LDAP). 
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_abandon()\fR returns  \fB0\fR if successful or \fB\(mi1\fRotherwise and setting \fIld_errno\fR appropriately. See \fBldap_error\fR(3LDAP) for details.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBldap\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_result\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_error\fR(3LDAP), \fBattributes\fR(5)
