'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH ldap_first_message 3LDAP "23 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_first_message, ldap_count_messages, ldap_next_message, ldap_msgtype \- LDAP message processing functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc[ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lldap[ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBint\fR \fBldap_count_messages\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*res\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBLDAPMessage *\fR\fBldap_first_message\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*res\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBLDAPMessage *\fR\fBldap_next_message\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*msg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_msgtype\fR(\fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*res\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_count_messages()\fR is used to count the number of messages that remain in a chain of results if called with a  message, entry, or reference returned by  \fBldap_first_message()\fR, \fBldap_next_message()\fR, \fBldap_first_entry()\fR, \fBldap_next_entry()\fR, \fBldap_first_reference()\fR, and  \fBldap_next_reference()\fR 
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_first_message()\fR and   \fBldap_next_message()\fR functions are used to step through the list of messages in a result chain returned by  \fBldap_result()\fR. 
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_msgtype()\fR function returns the type of an LDAP message.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_first_message()\fR and  \fBldap_next_message()\fR return   \fBLDAPMessage\fR which can include referral messages, entry messages and result messages.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_count_messages()\fR returns the number of messages contained in a chain of results.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_first_message()\fR and  \fBldap_next_message()\fR return  \fINULL\fR when no more messages exist.  \fINULL\fR is also returned if an error occurs while  stepping through the entries, in which case the error parameters  in the session handle  \fIld\fR will be set to indicate the error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_error\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_result\fR(3LDAP), \fBattributes\fR(5) 
