'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2001, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH ldap_get_lang_values 3LDAP "23 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_get_lang_values, ldap_get_lang_values_len \- return an attribute's  values that matches a specified language subtype
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-l\fRldap [ \fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR ] 
#include <ldap.h>

\fBchar **\fR\fBldap_get_lang_values\fR(\fBLDAP *\fR\fIld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage *\fR\fIentry\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fItarget\fR,\ \fBchar **\fR\fItype\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct berval **\fR\fBldap_get_lang_values_len\fR(\fBLDAP *\fR\fIld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage *\fR\fIentry\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fItarget\fR, \fBchar **\fR\fItype\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBldap_get_lang_values()\fR function returns an array of an attribute's string values that matches a specified language subtype. To retrieve the binary data from an attribute, call the \fBldap_get_lang_values_len()\fR function instead.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_get_lang_values()\fR should be called to retrieve a null-terminated array of an attribute's string values that match a specified language  subtype. The \fIentry\fR parameter is the entry retrieved from the directory.   The \fItarget\fR parameter should contain the attribute type the values that are required, including the optional language subtype. The \fItype\fR  parameter points to a buffer that returns the attribute type retrieved by  this function. Unlike the \fBldap_get_values()\fR function, if a language subtype is specified, this function first attempts to find and return      values that match that subtype, for example, \fBcn;lang-en\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_get_lang_values_len()\fR returns a null-terminated array of pointers  to \fBberval\fR structures, each containing the length and pointer to a binary  value of an attribute for a given entry. The \fIentry\fR parameter is the result returned by \fBldap_result()\fR or \fBldap_search_s()\fR functions. The \fItarget\fR parameter is the attribute returned by the call to \fBldap_first_attribute()\fR or \fBldap_next_attribute()\fR, or the attribute as a  literal string, such as \fBjpegPhoto\fR or \fBaudio\fR.
.sp
.LP
These functions are deprecated. Use \fBldap_get_values()\fR or \fBldap_get_values_len()\fR instead.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, \fBldap_get_lang_values()\fR returns a null-terminated array of the attribute's values. If the call is unsuccessful, or if no such attribute exists in the \fIentry\fR, it returns a \fINULL\fR and sets the appropriate error code in the LDAP structure. 
.sp
.LP
The \fBldap_get_lang_values_len()\fR function returns a null-terminated array  of pointers to \fBberval\fR structures, which in turn, if successful, contain pointers to the  attribute's binary values. If the call is unsuccessful, or if no such attribute exists in the \fIentry\fR, it returns a \fINULL\fR and sets the appropriate error code in the LDAP structure.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library
_
Interface StabilityObsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_first_attribute\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_first_attribute\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_get_values\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_result\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_search\fR(3LDAP), \fBattributes\fR(5)
