'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH ldap_searchprefs 3LDAP "23 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_searchprefs, ldap_init_searchprefs, ldap_init_searchprefs_buf, ldap_free_searchprefs, ldap_first_searchobj, ldap_next_searchobj \- LDAP search preference configuration routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lldap [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBint\fR \fBldap_init_searchprefs\fR(\fBchar\fR \fI**file\fR,
     \fBstruct ldap_searchobj\fR \fI***solistp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_init_searchprefs_buf\fR(\fBchar\fR \fI**buf\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIlonglen\fR,
     \fBstruct ldap_searchobj\fR \fI**solistp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct ldap_searchobj\fR \fB**ldap_free_searchprefs\fR
     (\fBstruct ldap_searchobj\fR \fI**solist\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct ldap_searchobj\fR \fB**ldap_first_searchobj\fR
     (\fBstruct ldap_seachobj\fR \fI**solist\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct ldap_searchobj\fR \fB**ldap_next_searchobj\fR
     (\fBstruct ldap_seachobj\fR \fI**solist\fR, \fBstruct ldap_seachobj\fR \fI**so\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions provide a standard way to access LDAP search preference configuration data.  LDAP search preference configurations are typically used by LDAP client programs to specify which attributes a user may search by, labels for the attributes, and LDAP filters and scopes associated with those searches.  Client software presents these choices to a user, who can then specify the type of search to be performed.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_init_searchprefs()\fR reads a sequence of search preference configurations from a valid LDAP  searchpref configuration file. See  \fBldapsearchprefs.conf\fR(4). Upon success, \fB0\fR is returned and \fIsolistp\fR is set to point to a list of search preference data structures.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_init_searchprefs_buf()\fR reads a sequence of search preference configurations from \fIbuf\fR, whose size is \fIbuflen.\fR \fIbuf\fR should point to the data in the format defined for an LDAP search preference configuration file. See  \fBldapsearchprefs.conf\fR(4). Upon success, \fB0\fR is returned and \fIsolistp\fR is set to point to a list of search preference data structures.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_free_searchprefs()\fR disposes of the data structures allocated by \fBldap_init_searchprefs()\fR. 
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_first_searchpref()\fR returns the first search preference data structure in the list \fIsolist.\fR The \fIsolist\fR is typically obtained by calling \fBldap_init_searchprefs()\fR. 
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_next_searchpref()\fR returns the search preference after \fIso\fR in the template list \fIsolist.\fR A NULL pointer is returned if \fIso\fR is the last entry in the list.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_init_search_prefs()\fR and \fBldap_init_search_prefs_bufs()\fR return:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLDAP_SEARCHPREF_ERR_VERSION\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fI**buf\fR points to data that is newer than can be handled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLDAP_SEARCHPREF_ERR_MEM\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Memory allocation problem.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBldap\fR(3LDAP), \fBldapsearchprefs.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
Yeong, W., Howes, T., and Hardcastle-Kille, S., "Lightweight Directory Access Protocol", OSI-DS-26, April 1992.
.sp
.LP
Howes, T., Hardcastle-Kille, S., Yeong, W., and Robbins, C., "Lightweight Directory Access Protocol", OSI-DS-26, April 1992.
.sp
.LP
Hardcastle-Kille, S., "A String Representation of Distinguished Names", OSI-DS-23, April 1992.
.sp
.LP
Information Processing - Open Systems Interconnection - The Directory, International Organization for Standardization.  International Standard 9594, (1988).
