'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH ldap_delete 3LDAP "23 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "LDAP Library Functions"
.SH NAME
ldap_delete, ldap_delete_s, ldap_delete_ext, ldap_delete_ext_s \- LDAP delete operation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc[ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lldap[ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBint\fR \fBldap_delete\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*dn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_delete_s\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*dn\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_delete_ext\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*dn\fR, \fBLDAPControl\fR \fI**serverctrls\fR,
     \fBLDAPControl\fR \fI**clientctrls\fR, \fBint\fR \fI*msgidp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_delete_ext_s\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*dn\fR, \fBLDAPControl\fR \fI**serverctrls\fR,
     \fBLDAPControl\fR \fI**clientctrls\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBldap_delete_s()\fR function is used to perform an LDAP delete operation synchronously.  It takes \fIdn\fR, the DN of the entry to be deleted. It returns an LDAP error code, indicating the success or failure of the operation.
.sp
.LP
The \fBldap_delete()\fR function is used to perform an LDAP delete operation asynchronously.  It takes the same parameters as \fBldap_delete_s()\fR, but returns the message id of the request it initiated.  The result of the delete can be obtained by a subsequent call to \fBldap_result\fR(3LDAP). 
.sp
.LP
The  \fBldap_delete_ext()\fR function initiates an asynchronous delete operation and returns  \fBLDAP_SUCCESS\fR if the request was successfully sent to the server, or else it returns a LDAP error code if not (see  \fBldap_error\fR(3LDAP)). If successful,  \fBldap_delete_ext()\fR places the message id of the request in  \fI*msgidp\fR. A subsequent call to  \fBldap_result()\fR, can be used to obtain the result of the add request.
.sp
.LP
The  \fBldap_delete_ext_s()\fR function initiates a synchronous delete operation and as such returns the result of the operation itself.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_delete_s()\fR returns an LDAP error code which can be interpreted by calling one of \fBldap_perror\fR(3LDAP) functions. \fBldap_delete()\fR returns  \fB\(mi1\fR if something went wrong initiating the request.  It returns the non-negative message id of the request if things were successful.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBldap\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_error\fR(3LDAP), \fBattributes\fR(5)
