'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH iconv.h 3HEAD "18 Jan 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
iconv.h, iconv \- codeset conversion facility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBiconv.h\fR> 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBiconv.h\fR> header defines the following type:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBiconv_t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Identifies the conversion from one codeset to another.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following symbolic constants are defined as possible values for an operation request in query or setting of the iconv code conversion behavior of the current conversion:
.br
.in +2
\fBICONV_GET_CONVERSION_BEHAVIOR\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBICONV_GET_DISCARD_ILSEQ\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBICONV_GET_TRANSLITERATE\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBICONV_IGNORE_NULL\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBICONV_REPLACE_INVALID\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBICONV_SET_CONVERSION_BEHAVIOR\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBICONV_SET_DISCARD_ILSEQ\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBICONV_SET_TRANSLITERATE\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBICONV_TRIVIALP\fR
.in -2
.sp
.LP
The following symbolic constants are defined, zero or more of which can be bitwise-inclusively OR'ed together to form the conversion behavior settings for some of the above operation requests:
.br
.in +2
\fBICONV_CONV_ILLEGAL_DISCARD\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBICONV_CONV_ILLEGAL_REPLACE_HEX\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBICONV_CONV_ILLEGAL_RESTORE_HEX\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBICONV_CONV_NON_IDENTICAL_DISCARD\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBICONV_CONV_NON_IDENTICAL_REPLACE_HEX\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBICONV_CONV_NON_IDENTICAL_RESTORE_HEX\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBICONV_CONV_NON_IDENTICAL_TRANSLITERATE\fR
.in -2
.sp
.LP
For more information on the above symbolic constants, see \fBiconv\fR(3C), \fBiconvctl\fR(C), \fBiconv_open\fR(3C), and \fBiconvstr\fR(3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBiconv\fR(3C), \fBiconv_close\fR(3C), \fBiconv_open\fR(3C), \fBiconvctl\fR(C), \fBiconvstr\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
