'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH paths.h 3HEAD "18 Jan 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
paths.h, paths \- symbolic names for pathnames
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <paths.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fB<paths.h>\fR header defines various symbolic names for  pathnames.  These have been defined to allow for easier porting software to Solaris.
.SS "Pathname Macros"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_BSHELL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the Bourne Shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_CONSOLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the console device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_CONSOLE_USER_LINK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The link to the current (virtual) console device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_CP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBcp\fR(1) command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_CSHELL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the C-shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_DEFAULT_LOGIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the default login file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_DEVNULL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the device \fBnull\fR(7D).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_ED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the text editor (\fBed\fR(1)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_ETHERS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the name-to-ethernet address mapping table.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_GROUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBgroup\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_HEQUIV\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBhosts.equiv\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_HESIOD_CONF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBhesiod.conf\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_HOSTS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBhosts\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_IPNODES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBipnodes\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_IPSECALGS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBipsecalgs\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_IRS_CONF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBirs.conf\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_KMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the device kmem (\fBmem\fR(7D)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_LASTLOG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBlastlog\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_MAILDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the mail spool directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_NETGROUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBnetgroup\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_NETMASKS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBnetmasks\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_NETWORKS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBnetworks\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_NOLOGIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBnologin\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_OPENPROM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBopenprom\fR(7D) device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_POWER_MGMT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the power management driver (\fBpm\fR(7D)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_PROTOCOLS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBprotcols\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_RANDOM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBrandom\fR(7D) device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_RESCONF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBresolv.conf\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_RSH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the remote shell command (\fBrsh\fR(1)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_SERVICES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBservices\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_SHELLS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the shell database (\fBshells\fR(4)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_SYSCON\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBsyscon\fR device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_SYSEVENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBsysevent\fR device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_SYSMSG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBsysmsg\fR device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_SYSTTY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the system \fBtty\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_TMP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the temporary file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_TTY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBtty\fR device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_UNIX\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the kernel \fBnamelist\fR (\fBksyms\fR(7D)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_URANDOM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBurandom\fR(7D) device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_USRTMP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the user temporary directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_UTMPX\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the UTMPX file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_VARRUN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the systems temporary file directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_VARTMP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the user temporary file directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_VI\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the \fBvi\fR(1) editor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB_PATH_WTMPX\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
The pathname of the WTMPX file.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcp\fR(1), \fBed\fR(1), \fBrsh\fR(1), \fBvi\fR(1), \fBshells\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBksyms\fR(7D), \fBmem\fR(7D), \fBnull\fR(7D), \fBopenprom\fR(7D), \fBpm\fR(7D), \fBrandom\fR(7D), \fBurandom\fR(7D)
