'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved. Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH uio.h 3HEAD "10 Sep 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
uio.h, uio \- definitions for vector I/O operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBsys/uio.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBsys/uio.h\fR> header defines the \fBiovec\fR structure, which includes the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
void   *iov_base     /* base address of a memory region 
                        for input or output */
size_t iov_len       /* size of the memory pointed to by 
                        iov_base */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The <\fBsys/uio.h\fR> header uses the \fBiovec\fR structure for scatter/gather I/O.
.sp
.LP
The \fBssize_t\fR and \fBsize_t\fR types are defined as described in <\fBsys/types.h\fR>.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The symbol {\fBIOV_MAX\fR} defined in <\fBlimits.h\fR> should always be used to learn about the limits on the number of scatter/gather elements that can be processed in one call, instead of assuming a fixed value.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBread\fR(2), \fBwrite\fR(2), \fBlimits.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBtypes.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
