'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved. Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH utsname.h 3HEAD "10 Sep 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Headers"
.SH NAME
utsname.h, utsname \- system name structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBsys/utsname.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBsys/utsname.h\fR> header defines the structure \fButsname\fR, which includes the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
char sysname[]      /* name of this implementation of the
                       operating system */
char nodename[]     /* name of this node within an
                       implementation-defined communications 
                       network */
char release[]      /* current release level of this 
                       implementation */
char version[]      /* current version level of this 
                       release */
char machine[]      /* name of the hardware type on which
                       the system is running */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The character arrays are of unspecified size, but the data stored in them is terminated by a null byte.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardSee \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBuname\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
