'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html. This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH asa 1 "2011 年 8 月 17 日" "SunOS 5.11" "ユーザーコマンド"
.SH 名前
asa \- FORTRAN キャリッジ制御出力の印刷可能形式への変換
.SH 形式
.LP
.nf
\fBasa\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH 機能説明
.sp
.LP
\fBasa\fR ユーティリティは、その入力ファイルを標準出力に書き込んで、テキストファイル内のキャリッジ制御文字をラインプリンタ制御シーケンスにマッピングします。
.sp
.LP
各行の最初の文字が入力から削除され、次の処理が実行されます。
.sp
.LP
次に示すように、削除される文字によって実行される処理が異なります。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBSPACE\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
残りの行が変更なしで出力されます。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
これは、残りの入力行があとに続く NEWLINE 制御シーケンスで置き換えられます。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
これは、残りの入力行があとに続く NEWPAGE 制御シーケンスで置き換えられます。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB+\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
前の行の第 1 カラムに戻って印刷を行う制御シーケンスで置き換えられます。残りの入力行は、その行の第 1 カラムから印刷されます。
.RE

.sp
.LP
入力行の第 1 カラムに前述以外の文字がある場合、\fBasa\fR はその文字をスキップして、残りの行を変更せずに印刷します。
.sp
.LP
\fIファイル名\fRを指定しないで \fBasa\fR を呼び出すと、標準入力が使用されます。
.SH オプション
.sp
.LP
次のオプションがサポートされています。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
各ファイルを新しいページから開始します。
.RE

.SH オペランド
.sp
.LP
次のオペランドがサポートされています。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
入力に使用されるテキストファイルのパス名。\fBfile\fR オペランドを指定しないか、または「\fB\|\(mi\|\fR」を指定すると、標準入力が使用されます。
.RE

.SH 環境
.sp
.LP
\fBasa\fR の実行に影響を与える次の環境変数についての詳細は、\fBenviron\fR(5) を参照してください。\fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL \fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR、および \fBNLSPATH\fR。
.SH 終了ステータス
.sp
.LP
次の終了値が返されます。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
入力ファイルはすべて正常に出力されました。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
エラーが発生しました。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
属性についての詳細は、\fBattributes\fR(5) を参照してください。
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性タイプ属性値
_
使用条件system/core-os
_
インタフェースの安定性確実
_
標準T{
\fBstandards\fR(5) を参照してください。
T}
.TE

.SH 関連項目
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
