'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html. This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH cal 1 "1995 年 2 月 1 日" "SunOS 5.11" "ユーザーコマンド"
.SH 名前
cal \- カレンダの表示
.SH 形式
.LP
.nf
\fBcal\fR [ [\fImonth\fR] \fIyear\fR]
.fi

.SH 機能説明
.sp
.LP
\fBcal\fR ユーティリティは、グレゴリ暦のカレンダを標準出力に書き込みます。\fIyear\fR オペランドを指定すると、その年のカレンダが書き込まれます。オペランドを指定しないと、現在の月のカレンダが書き込まれます。
.SH オペランド
.sp
.LP
次のオペランドがサポートされています。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImonth\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
表示する月を、\fB1\fR (1 月) ～ \fB12\fR (12 月) の 10 進数で指定します。デフォルト値は、現在の月です。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIyear\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
カレンダを表示する年を、\fB1\fR ～ \fB9999\fR の 10 進数で指定します。デフォルト値は、現在の年です。
.RE

.SH 環境
.sp
.LP
\fBcal\fR の実行に影響を与える次の環境変数についての詳細は、\fBenviron\fR(5) を参照してください。\fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_TIME\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR、および \fBNLSPATH\fR。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBTZ\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
現在の月の値を計算するのに使用するタイムゾーンを決定します。
.RE

.SH 終了ステータス
.sp
.LP
次の終了値が返されます。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
正常終了。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
エラーが発生しました。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
属性についての詳細は、\fBattributes\fR(5) を参照してください。
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性タイプ属性値
_
使用条件system/core-os
_
インタフェースの安定性確実
_
標準T{
\fBstandards\fR(5) を参照してください。
T}
.TE

.SH 関連項目
.sp
.LP
\fBcalendar\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH 注意事項
.sp
.LP
1752 年の 9 月のカレンダ出力は、通常のものと異なります。この月は、うるう年の調整の欠落を補うために 11 日分省かれています。このカレンダを見るには、次のように入力します。
.sp
.in +2
.nf
cal 9 1752
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
コマンド \fBcal 83\fR は、西暦 1983 年ではなく、西暦 83 年を出力します。
.sp
.LP
年は、常に 1 月から始まるものと見なされます。
