'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited. All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html. This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH dircmp 1 "1995 年 2 月 1 日" "SunOS 5.11" "ユーザーコマンド"
.SH 名前
dircmp \- ディレクトリの比較
.SH 形式
.LP
.nf
\fBdircmp\fR [\fB-ds\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fIn\fR] \fIdir1\fR \fIdir2\fR
.fi

.SH 機能説明
.sp
.LP
\fBdircmp\fR コマンドは、\fIdir1\fR と \fIdir2\fR を調べて、ディレクトリの内容についての情報を表形式で生成します。各ディレクトリに固有なファイルのリストが、すべてのオプションについて生成されます。オプションを指定しないと、両方のディレクトリに共通して存在するファイルの内容が同じかどうかを示すリストが出力されます。
.SH オプション
.sp
.LP
次のオプションがサポートされています。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
両方のディレクトリで同じ名前を持つファイルの内容を比較して、2 つのファイルを一致させるために変更すべき箇所のリストを出力します。リストの形式については、\fBdiff\fR(1) を参照してください。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
同じファイルについてのメッセージを抑制します。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR \fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
出力行の幅を \fIn\fR 文字に変更します。デフォルトの幅は \fB72\fR 文字です。
.RE

.SH オペランド
.sp
.LP
次のオペランドがサポートされています。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIdir1\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fIdir2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
比較するディレクトリのパス名
.RE

.SH 使用法
.sp
.LP
ファイルのサイズが 2G バイト (2 ^31 バイト) 以上ある場合の \fBdircmp\fR の動作については、\fBlargefile\fR(5) を参照してください。
.SH 環境
.sp
.LP
\fBdircmp\fR の実行に影響を与える次の環境変数については、\fBenviron\fR(5) を参照してください。\fBLC_COLLATE\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR、および \fBNLSPATH\fR。
.SH 終了ステータス
.sp
.LP
次の終了値が返されます。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
正常終了。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
エラーが発生しました。(ディレクトリの内容の違いはエラーとはみなされません。)
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
属性についての詳細は、\fBattributes\fR(5) を参照してください。
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性タイプ属性値
_
使用条件system/core-os
.TE

.SH 関連項目
.sp
.LP
\fBcmp\fR(1), \fBdiff\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5)
