'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html. This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH logname 1 "2011 年 7 月 27 日" "SunOS 5.11" "ユーザーコマンド"
.SH 名前
logname \- ユーザーのログイン名の応答
.SH 形式
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/logname\fR
.fi

.SH 機能説明
.sp
.LP
\fBlogname\fR は、ユーザーのログイン名を標準出力に書き込みます。ログイン名は \fBgetlogin\fR(3C) 関数によって返される文字列です。\fBgetlogin()\fR が正常に文字列を返さない場合、呼び出し側プロセスの実際のユーザー ID に対応する名前が代わりに使用されます。
.SH 環境
.sp
.LP
\fBlogname\fR の実行に影響を与える次の環境変数についての詳細は、\fBenviron\fR(5) を参照してください。\fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR、および \fBNLSPATH\fR。
.SH 終了ステータス
.sp
.LP
次のエラー値が返されます。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
正常終了。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
エラーが発生しました。
.RE

.SH ファイル
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/profile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
ログイン時のユーザー環境
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/adm/utmpx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
ユーザーとアカウンティングの情報
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
属性についての詳細は、\fBattributes\fR(5) を参照してください。
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性タイプ属性値
_
使用条件system/core-os
_
インタフェースの安定性確実
_
標準T{
\fBstandards\fR(5) を参照してください。
T}
.TE

.SH 関連項目
.sp
.LP
\fBenv\fR(1), \fBlogin\fR(1), \fBgetlogin\fR(3C), \fButmpx\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
