'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T 
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html. This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH pwd 1 "2011 年 7 月 12 日" "SunOS 5.11" "ユーザーコマンド"
.SH 名前
pwd \- 作業中のディレクトリの出力
.SH 形式
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/pwd\fR 
.fi

.SH 機能説明
.sp
.LP
\fBpwd\fR は、現在の作業用 ディレクトリの絶対パス名を標準出力に書き出します。
.sp
.LP
Bourne シェル (\fBsh\fR(1)) と Korn シェル (\fBksh\fR(1) および \fBksh88\fR(1)) にも組み込み \fBpwd\fR コマンドがあります。
.SH 環境
.sp
.LP
\fBpwd\fR の実行に影響を与える次の環境変数についての詳細は、\fBenviron\fR(5) を参照してください。\fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR、および \fBNLSPATH\fR。
.SH 終了ステータス
.sp
.LP
次の終了値が返されます。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
正常終了。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
エラーが発生しました。
.RE

.sp
.LP
エラーが検出された場合、出力は標準出力に書き込まれず、診断メッセージが標準エラーに書かれます。終了ステータスは \fB0\fR にはなりません。
.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
属性についての詳細は、\fBattributes\fR(5) を参照してください。
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性タイプ属性値
_
使用条件system/core-os
_
CSI有効
_
インタフェースの安定性確実
_
標準T{
\fBstandards\fR(5) を参照してください。
T}
.TE

.SH 関連項目
.sp
.LP
\fBcd\fR(1), \fBksh\fR(1), \fBksh88\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBshell_builtins\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH 診断
.sp
.LP
``\fBCannot open ..\fR'' および ``\fBRead error in ..\fR'' は、ファイルシステムに異常がある可能性を示しています。UNIX のシステム管理者にお尋ねください。
.SH 注意事項
.sp
.LP
現在のディレクトリまたはその 1 つ上のディレクトリに移動する場合、  \fBpwd\fR が正しく応答しないことがあります。\fBcd\fR(1) コマンドにフルパス名を付けて使用し、 この状態を修正してください。
