'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html. This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH split 1 "1999 年 4 月 16 日" "SunOS 5.11" "ユーザーコマンド"
.SH 名前
split \- ファイルを複数に分割
.SH 形式
.LP
.nf
\fBsplit\fR [\fB-linecount\fR | \fB-l\fR \fIlinecount\fR] [\fB-a\fR \fIsuffixlength\fR] 
     [\fIfile\fR [\fIname\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsplit\fR [\fB-b\fR \fIn\fR | \fIn\fRk | \fIn\fRm] [\fB-a\fR \fIsuffixlength\fR] [\fIfile\fR [\fIname\fR]]
.fi

.SH 機能説明
.sp
.LP
\fBsplit\fR ユーティリティは、\fIfile\fR で示すファイルを読み取り、それを \fIlinecount\fR で示す数の行に分けて出力ファイル群に書き込みます。最初の出力ファイル名は、\fIname\fR に \fBaa\fR を追加したもので、その後辞書編集順どおりに \fBzz\fR までを付けた名前となります (最大 676 ファイル)。\fIname\fR の最大長は、ファイルシステムによって認められた最大ファイル名の長さ未満の 2 文字です。\fBstatvfs\fR(2) を参照してください。出力名が指定されていない場合、\fBx\fR をデフォルトとして使用します (出力ファイルは \fBxaa\fR または \fBxab\fR などとなります)。
.SH オプション
.sp
.LP
次のオプションがサポートされています。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB\(mi\fR\fIlinecount\fR\fB |\fR \fB-l\fR \fIlinecount\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
各断片の行数。デフォルトは \fB1000\fR 行。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fIsuffixlength\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
各出力ファイルの接尾辞部分の長さを \fIsuffixlength\fR 文字にします。この \fB-a\fR オプションを指定しない場合、 接尾辞のデフォルト長は \fB2\fR 文字となります。\fIname\fR オペランドで指定したファイル名の長さと接尾辞の長さの合計が \fINAME_MAX\fR バイトを超えてしまう場合には、エラーとなります。このとき \fBsplit\fR は診断メッセージを発行して処理を終了します。ファイルは生成されません。\fI\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR \fIn\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
各出力ファイルのサイズを \fIn\fR バイトとします。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR \fIn\fR\fBk\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
各出力ファイルのサイズを \fIn\fR\fB*1024\fR バイトとします。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR \fIn\fR\fBm\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
各出力ファイルのサイズを \fIn\fR\fB*1\|048\|576\fR バイトとします。
.RE

.SH オペランド
.sp
.LP
次のオペランドがサポートされています。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
入力となる通常ファイルのパス名。このオペランドを省略するか \fB\(mi\fR を指定すると、標準入力とみなされます。\fI\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIname\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
\fBsplit\fR の実行により生成される各出力ファイルの接頭辞を指定します。\fIname\fR オペランドを省略すると、\fBx\fR が接頭辞として使用されます。この接頭辞のベース名の長さと \fIsuffixlength\fR 値の合計は、\fINAME_MAX\fR バイトを超えることはできません。\fI\fR詳しくは「オプション」の項を参照してください。
.RE

.SH 使用法
.sp
.LP
ファイルが 2G バイト (2^31 バイト) 以上ある場合の \fBsplit\fR の動作については、\fBlargefile\fR(5) を参照してください。
.SH 環境
.sp
.LP
\fBsplit\fR の実行に影響を与える次の環境変数についての詳細は、\fBenviron\fR(5) を参照してください。\fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR、および \fBNLSPATH\fR。
.SH 終了ステータス
.sp
.LP
次の終了値が返されます。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
正常終了。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
エラーが発生しました。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
属性についての詳細は、\fBattributes\fR(5) を参照してください。
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性タイプ属性値
_
使用条件system/core-os
_
CSI有効
_
インタフェースの安定性確実
_
標準T{
\fBstandards\fR(5) を参照してください。 
T}
.TE

.SH 関連項目
.sp
.LP
\fBcsplit\fR(1), \fBstatvfs\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
