'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html. This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH sum 1 "2011 年 7 月 28 日" "SunOS 5.11" "ユーザーコマンド"
.SH 名前
sum \- ファイルのチェックサムおよびブロックカウントの出力
.SH 形式
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/sum\fR [-r] [\fIfile\fR...]
.fi

.SH 機能説明
.sp
.LP
\fBsum\fR は、各ファイル引数のチェックサムを一覧表示します。ファイル引数が指定されていない場合は、標準入力から読み取られます。
.SH オプション
.sp
.LP
次のオプションがサポートされています。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
チェックサムの計算には、代替 (マシン依存型) アルゴリズムを使用します。
.RE

.SH オペランド
.sp
.LP
次のオペランドがサポートされています。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
ファイルのパス名。ファイルの指定がない場合は、標準入力を使用します。
.RE

.SH 使用法
.sp
.LP
ファイルが 2G バイト (2^31 バイト) 以上ある場合の \fBsum\fR の動作については、\fBlargefile\fR(5) を参照してください。
.SH 環境
.sp
.LP
\fBsum\fR の実行に影響を与える次の環境変数についての詳細は、\fBenviron\fR(5) を参照してください。\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR、および \fBNLSPATH\fR。
.SH 終了ステータス
.sp
.LP
次の終了値が返されます。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
正常終了。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
エラーが発生しました。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
属性についての詳細は、\fBattributes\fR(5) を参照してください。
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性タイプ属性値
_
使用条件system/core-os
_
CSI有効
.TE

.SH 関連項目
.sp
.LP
\fBcksum\fR(1), \fBgetconf\fR(1), \fBsum\fR(1B), \fBwc\fR(1), \fBlibmd\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5)
.SH 診断
.sp
.LP
大部分のデバイスでは、読み取りエラーとファイルの終わりとを区別できません。\fB\fRブロック数をチェックしてください。
.SH 注意事項
.sp
.LP
移植性の必要なアプリケーションには \fBcksum\fR(1) を使用してください。このコマンドのデフォルトアルゴリズムは POSIX 標準に定義されていて、プロットフォーム間で同一です。
.sp
.LP
\fBsum\fR と \fBusr/ucb/sum\fR (\fBsum\fR(1B) 参照) の返すチェックサムは異なります。
