'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T 
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html. This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH tee 1 "2011 年 7 月 28 日" "SunOS 5.11" "ユーザーコマンド"
.SH 名前
tee \- 標準出力の複写
.SH 形式
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/tee\fR [\fB-ai\fR] [\fIfile\fR...]
.fi

.SH 機能説明
.sp
.LP
\fBtee\fR は標準入力を標準出力およびゼロ以上のファイルにコピーします。オプションは、指定したファイルを上書きするか、または追加するかを決定します。tee ユーティリティーは出力をバッファーに格納しません。ファイルへの書き込みに失敗すると、\fBtee\fR はゼロ以外の終了ステータスで終了しますが、その他のファイルへの書き込みは継続します。
.sp
.LP
指定可能な \fIfile\fR オペランドの数は、基盤となるオペレーティングシステムで制限されます。
.SH オプション
.sp
.LP
次のオプションを指定できます。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
出力はファイルを上書きするのではなく、ファイルに追加されます。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
割り込みを無視します。
.RE

.SH オペランド
.sp
.LP
次のオペランドがサポートされています。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
.rt  
出力ファイルのパス名。
.RE

.SH 使用法
.sp
.LP
ファイルが 2G バイト (2^31 バイト) 以上ある場合の \fBtee\fR の動作については、\fBlargefile\fR(5) を参照してください。
.SH 環境
.sp
.LP
\fBtee\fR の実行に影響を与える次の環境変数についての詳細は、\fBenviron\fR(5) を参照してください。 \fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR、および \fBNLSPATH\fR。
.SH 終了ステータス
.sp
.LP
次の終了値が返されます。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
正常終了。標準入力は、正常にすべての 出力ファイルにコピーされました。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
エラーが発生しました。オープンできない、 またはステータスが得られないファイルの数。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
属性についての詳細は、\fBattributes\fR(5) を参照してください。
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性タイプ属性値
_
使用条件system/core-os
_
CSI有効
_
インタフェースの安定性確実
_
標準T{
\fBstandards\fR(5) を参照してください。
T}
.TE

.SH 関連項目
.sp
.LP
\fBcat\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
