'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html. This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.TH tty 1 "2011 年 7 月 28 日" "SunOS 5.11" "ユーザーコマンド"
.SH 名前
tty \- ユーザーの端末名の応答
.SH 形式
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/tty\fR [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-s\fR]
.fi

.SH 機能説明
.sp
.LP
\fBtty\fR ユーティリティーは、標準入力としてオープンしている端末名を標準出力に書き込みます。使用される名前は \fBttyname\fR(3C) 関数によって返される文字列と同じです。
.SH オプション
.sp
.LP
次のオプションを指定できます。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
ユーザー端末がアクティブな状態の同期回線につながっている場合は、ユーザー端末に接続されている同期回線番号を出力します。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
端末パス名は出力しませんが、終了ステータスをテストできるようにします。
.RE

.SH 環境
.sp
.LP
\fBtty\fR の実行に影響を与える次の環境変数の詳細については、\fBenviron\fR(5) を参照してください。 \fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR、および \fBNLSPATH\fR。 
.SH 終了ステータス
.sp
.LP
次の終了値が返されます。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
標準入力は端末である。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
標準入力は端末ではない。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>1\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
エラーが発生しました。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
属性についての詳細は、\fBattributes\fR(5) を参照してください。
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性タイプ属性値
_
使用条件system/core-os
_
CSI有効
_
インタフェースの安定性確実
_
標準T{
\fBstandards\fR(5) を参照してください。
T}
.TE

.SH 関連項目
.sp
.LP
\fBisatty\fR(3C), \fBttyname\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH 診断
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnot on an active synchronous line\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
標準入力は同期端末ではなく、 \fB-l\fR が指定されています。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBnot a tty\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
標準入力は端末ではなく、 \fB-s\fR は指定されていません。
.RE

.SH 注意事項
.sp
.LP
\fB-s\fR オプションは終了ステータスが必要な場合のみ 有効です。有効なパス名を表示することはできません。移植性の必要なアプリケーションには \fBtest\fR \fB-t\fR を使用してください。
