'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\"  Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html. This notice shall appear on any product containing this material. 
.TH type 1 "1995 年 2 月 1 日" "SunOS 5.11" "ユーザーコマンド"
.SH 名前
type \- コマンドのタイプの検査
.SH 形式
.LP
.nf
\fBtype\fR \fIname\fR...
.fi

.SH 機能説明
.sp
.LP
\fBtype\fR ユーティリティは、オペランドに指定された各 \fIname\fR が、コマンドとして使用された場合どのように解釈されるかを チェックします。\fB\fR具体的には、おのおのの name オペランドがシェルの組み込みコマンド、関数、別名、ハッシュドコマンド、キーワードのいずれであるかを表示し、さらに (該当するものについては) オペランドのパス名を表示します。
.sp
.LP
\fBtype\fR というシェルの組み込みコマンドもあります。機能は \fBtype\fR ユーティリティーと同様です。
.SH オペランド
.sp
.LP
次のオペランドがサポートされています。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIname\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
解釈される名前
.RE

.SH 環境
.sp
.LP
\fBtype\fR の実行に影響を与える次の環境変数についての詳細は、\fBenviron\fR(5) を参照してください。 \fBLANG\fR、\fBLC_ALL\fR、\fBLC_CTYPE\fR、\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR、および \fBNLSPATH\fR。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPATH\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
\fIname\fR の位置を表す
.RE

.SH 終了ステータス
.sp
.LP
次の終了値が返されます。
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
正常終了。
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
エラーが発生しました。
.RE

.SH 属性
.sp
.LP
属性についての詳細は、\fBattributes\fR(5) を参照してください。
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
属性タイプ属性値
_
使用条件system/core-os
_
インタフェースの安定性確実
_
標準T{
\fBstandards\fR(5) を参照してください。
T}
.TE

.SH 関連項目
.sp
.LP
\fBtypeset\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
