'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH gmatch 3GEN "29 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "String Pattern-Matching Library Functions"
.SH NAME
gmatch \- shell global pattern matching
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lgen\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <libgen.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgmatch\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIstr\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIpattern\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBgmatch()\fR checks whether the null-terminated string \fIstr\fR matches the null-terminated pattern string \fIpattern\fR. See the \fBsh\fR(1), section  \fBFile Name Generation\fR, for a discussion of pattern matching. A backslash (\fB\e\fR) is used as an escape character in pattern strings.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBgmatch()\fR returns non-zero if the pattern matches the string, zero if the pattern does not.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRExamples of \fBgmatch()\fR function.
.sp
.LP
In the following example, \fBgmatch()\fR returns non-zero (true) for all strings with "\fBa\fR" or "\fB-\fR" as their last character.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
char *s;
gmatch (s, "*[a\e-]" )
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsh\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When compiling multithreaded applications, the \fB_REENTRANT\fR flag must be defined on the compile line.  This flag should only be used in multithreaded applications.
