'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH objfs 7FS "30 August 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "File Systems"
.SH NAME
objfs \- Kernel object filesystem
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBobjfs\fR filesystem describes the state of all modules currently loaded by the kernel. It is mounted during boot at \fB/system/object\fR.
.sp
.LP
The contents of the filesystem are dynamic and reflect the current state of the system. Each module is represented by a directory containing a single file, 'object.' The object file is a read only ELF file which contains information about the object loaded in the kernel.
.sp
.LP
The kernel may load and unload modules dynamically as the system runs. As a result, applications may observe different directory contents in \fB/system/object\fR if they repeatedly rescan the directory. If a module is unloaded, its associated \fB/system/object\fR files disappear from the hierarchy and subsequent attempts to open them, or to read files opened before the module unloaded, elicits an error.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/system/object\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Mount point for objfs file system
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityPrivate
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBvfstab\fR(4)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The content of the ELF files is private to the implementation and subject to change without notice.
