'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.TH udfs 7FS "29 Mar 1999" "SunOS 5.11" "File Systems"
.SH NAME
udfs \- universal disk format file system
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBudfs\fR file system is a file system type that allows user access to files on Universal Disk Format (UDF) disks from within the Solaris operating environment. Once mounted,  a \fBudfs\fR file system provides standard Solaris file system operations and semantics. That is, users can read files, write files,  and list files in a directory on a UDF device and applications can use standard UNIX system calls on these files and directories.
.sp
.LP
Because \fBudfs\fR is a platform-independent file system, the same media can be written to and read from by any operating system or vendor.
.SS "Mounting File Systems"
.sp
.LP
\fBudfs\fR file systems are mounted using: 
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mount\fB-F\fR udfs -o rw/ro device-special
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Use: 
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mount /udfs
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
if the \fB/udfs\fR and device special file \fB/dev/dsk/c0t6d0s0\fR are valid and the following line (or similar line) appears in your \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/dev/dsk/c0t6d0s0 - /udfs udfs - no ro
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The \fBudfs\fR file system provides read-only support for ROM,  RAM,  and sequentially-recordable media and  read-write  support on RAM media.
.sp
.LP
The \fBudfs\fR file system also supports regular files, directories, and symbolic links, as well as device nodes such as block, character, FIFO, and Socket.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmount\fR(1M), \fBmount_udfs\fR(1M), \fBvfstab\fR(4) 
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Invalid characters such as "\fINULL\fR" and "\fB/\fR" and invalid file names such as "\fB\&.\fR" and "\fB\&..\fR" will be translated according to the following rule:            
.sp
.LP
Replace the invalid character with an "\fB_\fR," then append the file name with \fB#\fR followed by a 4 digit hex representation of the 16-bit CRC of the original \fBFileIdentifier\fR. For example, the file name ".." will become "__#4C05"
