'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH audiocs 7D "16 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
audiocs \- Crystal Semiconductor 4231 Audio driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudiocs\fR driver supports the Crystal Semiconductor 4231 Codec to implement the audio device interface.
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudiocs\fR device provides support for the internal speaker, headphone, line out, line in, microphone, and, on some platforms, internal CD-ROM audio in.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBaudiocs\fR errors are described in the \fBaudio\fR(7I) manual page.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/audiocs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit \fBaudiocs\fR driver
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/audiocs.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBaudiocs\fR driver configuration file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(1.83i) |cw(3.67i) 
lw(1.83i) |lw(3.67i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC
_
Availabilitysystem/io/audio
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBioctl\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBaudio\fR(7I), \fBmixer\fR(7I), \fBstreamio\fR(7I) 
.sp
.LP
Crystal Semiconductor, Inc. \fBCS4231\fR Data Sheet 
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
In addition to being logged, the following messages can appear on the system console: 
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBplay-interrupts too low\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBrecord-interrupts too low\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt  
The interrupt rate specified in \fBaudiocs.conf\fR is set too low. It is being reset to the rate specified in the message. Update \fBaudiocs.conf\fR to a higher interrupt rate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBplay-interrupts too high\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBrecord-interrupts too high\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
.rt  
The interrupt rate specified in \fBaudiocs.conf\fR is set too high. It is being reset to the rate specified in the message. Update \fBaudiocs.conf\fR to a lower interrupt rate.
.RE

