'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH fbt 7D "16 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
fbt \- DTrace function boundary tracing provider
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBfbt\fR driver is a DTrace dynamic tracing provider that performs dynamic instrumentation at function boundaries in the Solaris kernel.
.sp
.LP
The function is the fundamental unit of program text. In a well-designed system, the function performs a discrete and well-defined operation on a specified object or series of like objects. Most functions are implemented by themselves calling functions on encapsulated objects, but some functions \(emso-called "leaf functions" \(em are implemented without making further function calls. The Function Boundary Tracing \fBfbt\fR provider contains a mechanism for instrumenting the vast majority of functions in the kernel and offering the instrumentation as a set of DTrace probes.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfbt\fR driver is not a public interface and you access the instrumentation offered by this provider through DTrace. Refer to the \fISolaris Dynamic Tracing Guide\fR for a description of the public documented interfaces available for the DTrace facility and the probes offered by the \fBfbt\fR provider.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/dtrace
_
Interface StabilityPrivate
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdtrace\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBdtrace\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Dynamic Tracing Guide\fR
