'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH mpt 7D "24 Nov 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
mpt \- SCSI host bus adapter driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBscsi@unit-address\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmpt\fR host bus adapter driver is a \fBSCSA\fR compliant nexus driver that supports the LSI 53C1030 SCSI, SAS1064, SAS1068 and Dell SAS 6i/R controllers.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmpt\fR driver supports the standard functions provided by the \fBSCSA\fR interface, including tagged and untagged queuing, Narrow/Wide/Fast/Ultra SCSI/Ultra SCSI 2/Ultra SCSI 3/Ultra SCSI 4, and auto request sense. The \fBmpt\fR driver does not support linked commands. The \fBmpt\fR driver also supports SATA and Serial-Attached SCSI devices when connected to LSI SAS1064 (PCI-X), SAS1068 and Dell SAS 6i/R (PCI-Express) controllers.
.SH DRIVER CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmpt\fR driver obtains configuration parameters from the \fB/kernel/drv/mpt.conf\fR file. These parameters can override global SCSI settings.
.sp
.LP
The following configurable properties are applicable for parallel SCSI controllers and devices: \fBscsi-options\fR, \fBtarget<\fIn\fR>-scsi-options\fR, \fBscsi-reset-delay\fR, \fBscsi-tag-age-limit\fR, \fBscsi-watchdog-tick\fR, and \fBscsi-initiator-id\fR.
.sp
.LP
The property \fBtarget<\fIn\fR>-scsi-options\fR overrides the \fBscsi-options\fR property value for \fBtarget<\fIn\fR>\fR, where <\fIn\fR> can vary from decimal \fB0\fR to \fB15\fR for parallel SCSI operations. The \fBmpt\fR driver supports the following parallel SCSI options: \fBSCSI_OPTIONS_DR\fR, \fBSCSI_OPTIONS_SYNC\fR, \fBSCSI_OPTIONS_TAG\fR, \fBSCSI_OPTIONS_FAST\fR, \fBSCSI_OPTIONS_WIDE\fR, \fBSCSI_OPTIONS_FAST20\fR, \fBSCSI_OPTIONS_FAST40\fR, \fBSCSI_OPTIONS_FAST80\fR, \fBSCSI_OPTIONS_FAST160\fR, and \fBSCSI_OPTIONS_QAS\fR. To view the numeric values of these options, see \fB/usr/include/sys/scsi/conf/autoconf.h\fR. 
.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi-reset-delay\fR and \fBscsi-watchdog-tick\fR properties are applicable for Serial-Attached SCSI (SAS) controllers and SAS or SATA devices.
.sp
.LP
After periodic interval \fBscsi-watchdog-tick\fR, the \fBmpt\fR driver searches through all current and disconnected commands for timeouts.
.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi-tag-age-limit\fR property is ignored by \fBmpt\fR, regardless of controller or devices type. Refer to \fBscsi_hba_attach_setup\fR(9F) for more details of parallel SCSI properties and flags.      
.sp
.LP
When supported, multipath-capable storage is attached with Serial-Attached SCSI or SATA. Solaris I/O Multipathing may be enabled for \fBmpt\fR instances. This feature is configured with the \fBmpxio-disable\fR property in the \fBmpt.conf\fR file. To perform mutipathing tasks, we recommend that you use \fBstmsboot\fR(1M). Specifying \fBmpxio-disable="no"\fR enables the feature, while specifying \fBmpxio-disable="yes"\fR disables the feature. Solaris I/O Multipathing may be enabled or disabled on a per-controller basis. The following  example shows how to disable multipathing on a controller whose parent is \fB/pci@7c0/pci@0/pci@9\fR and unit-address is 0:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
 name="mpt" parent="/pci@7c0/pci@0/pci@9" unit-address="0" mpxio-disable="yes";
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Currently, \fBmpt\fR supports the \fBmpt_offline_delay\fR property. This property delays the offlining of a device until the timer has  expired. The default value is 20 seconds.
.sp
.LP
\fBmpt\fR supports the \fBmpt-on-bus-time\fR property, which controls a timer that resets a bus when a bus  connection exceeds the timer value. The default value of \fBmpt-on-bus-time\fR is 15 seconds. A value of 0 disables this feature. The property can be configured in \fB/kernel/drv/mpt.conf\fR as \fBmpt-on-bus-time\fR. In the following example, the timeout is disabled for unit 4 and set to two minutes for unit 4,1:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
name="mpt" parent="/pci@1d,700000"
        unit-address="4"
        mpt-on-bus-time=0;
name="mpt" parent="/pci@1d,700000"
        unit-address="4,1"
        mpt-on-bus-time=120;

Values have the following effect:

No property configured: Default, 15 second timeout
n = 0: Disables bus timeout feature
0 < n <= 15: Minimum (and default), 15 seconds
15 < n <= 3435: The actual value in seconds
3435 < n: Maximum, 3435 seconds
.fi
.in -2

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing the \fBmpt\fR Configuration File
.sp
.LP
Create a file called \fB/kernel/drv/mpt.conf\fR, then add the following line: 

.sp
.in +2
.nf
scsi-options=0x78;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The above example disables tagged queuing, Fast/Ultra \fBSCSI\fR, and wide mode for all \fBmpt\fR instances. The property value is calculated by or-ing the individual SCSI_OPTIONS_xxx values defined in \fB/usr/include/sys/scsi/conf/autoconf.h\fR.

.sp
.LP
The following example disables an option  for  one  specific parallel SCSI mpt device. See \fBdriver.conf\fR(4) and \fBpci\fR(4) for more details.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
 name="mpt" parent="/pci@1f,4000"
	unit-address="3"
	target1-scsi-options=0x58
	scsi-options=0x178 scsi-initiator-id=6;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Note that the default initiator \fBID\fR is 7 and that the change to \fBID\fR 6 occurs at attach time. It may be preferable to change the initiator ID with \fBeeprom\fR(1M).

.sp
.LP
The example above sets \fBscsi-options\fR for target 1 to \fB0x58\fR and all other targets on this SCSI bus to \fB0x178\fR.

.sp
.LP
You can determine the physical path name of the parent by using the \fB/devices\fR tree or by following the link of the logical device name:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
 # ls \fB-l\fR /dev/rdsk/c0t0d0s0
 lrwxrwxrwx  1 root   root      45 May 16 10:08 /dev/rdsk/c0t0d0s0 ->
	.\|.\|/\|.\|.\|/devices/pci@1f,4000/scsi@3/sd@0,0:a,raw
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
As in the previous example, the parent is \fB/pci@1f,4000\fR and the \fBunit-address\fR is 3.

.sp
.LP
To set \fBscsi-options\fR more specifically per target, do the following:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
target1-scsi-options=0x78;
device-type-scsi-options-list =
    "SEAGATE ST32550W", "seagate-scsi-options" ;
seagate-scsi-options = 0x58;
scsi-options=0x3f8;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The above sets \fBscsi-options\fR for target 1 to \fB0x78\fR. All other targets on the SCSI bus are set to \fB0x3f8\fR (with the exception of one specific disk type for which \fBscsi-options\fR is set to \fB0x58\fR).

.sp
.LP
\fBscsi-options\fR specified per target ID have the highest precedence, followed by \fBscsi-options\fR per device type. Global \fBscsi-options\fR (for all \fBmpt\fR instances) per bus have the lowest precedence.

.sp
.LP
You must reboot the system for the specified \fBscsi-options\fR to take effect.

.SS "SCSI Transport Capabilities"
.sp
.LP
SCSI transport capabilities as set by the target driver. The following capabilities can be queried and modified by the target driver: \fBsynchronous\fR, \fBtagged-qing\fR, \fBwide-xfer\fR, \fBauto-rqsense\fR, \fBqfull-retries\fR, and \fBqfull-retry-interval\fR. All other capabilities are query only.
.sp
.LP
By default, \fBtagged-qing\fR, \fBauto-rqsense\fR, and \fBwide-xfer\fR capabilities are disabled, while disconnect, synchronous, and untagged-qing are enabled. These capabilities can only have binary values (0 or 1).The default value for \fBqfull-retries\fR is 10, while the default value for \fBqfull-retry-interval\fR is 100. The \fBqfull-retries\fR capability is a \fBuchar_t\fR (\fB0\fR to \fB255\fR), while \fBqfull-retry-interval\fR is a \fBushort_t\fR (\fB0\fR to \fB65535\fR).
.sp
.LP
The target driver must enable \fBtagged-qing\fR and \fBwide-xfer\fR explicitly. The \fB untagged-qing\fR capability is always enabled and its value cannot be modified.
.sp
.LP
If a conflict exists between the value of \fBscsi-options\fR and a capability, the value set in \fBscsi-options\fR prevails. Only \fBwhom != 0\fR is supported in the \fBscsi_ifsetcap\fR(9F) call. 
.sp
.LP
Refer to \fBscsi_ifsetcap\fR(9F) and \fBscsi_ifgetcap\fR(9F) for details.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/mpt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
32-bit \fBELF\fR kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/mpt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
64-bit SPARC \fBELF\fR kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/mpt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
64-bit x86 \fBELF\fR kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/mpt.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
Optional configuration file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attribute:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureT{
x86, SPARC (Limited to systems with LSI Fusion family SCSI I/O processors). 
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBeeprom\fR(1M), \fBprtconf\fR(1M), \fBstmsboot\fR(1M), \fBdriver.conf\fR(4), \fBpci\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBscsi_vhci\fR(7D), \fBscsi_abort\fR(9F), \fBscsi_hba_attach_setup\fR(9F), \fBscsi_ifgetcap\fR(9F), \fBscsi_ifsetcap\fR(9F), \fBscsi_reset\fR(9F), \fBscsi_sync_pkt\fR(9F), \fBscsi_transport\fR(9F), \fBscsi_device\fR(9S), \fBscsi_extended_sense\fR(9S), \fBscsi_inquiry\fR(9S), \fBscsi_pkt\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIANSI Small Computer System Interface-2 (SCSI-2) (and later revisions).\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIANSI Serial-Attached SCSI-2 (SAS2)\fR
.sp
.LP
\fISYM53c1030 PCI-SCSI I/O processor Dual Channel Fast-160\fR \(em LSI Logic Inc.
.sp
.LP
\fILSISASI1064 PCI-X to 4-port 3 Gb/s SAS Controller \fR- LSI Logic Inc. 
.sp
.LP
\fILSISASI1068/E 4-Port PCI Express to 3 Gb/s SAS Controller \fR- LSI Logic Inc.
.sp
.LP
Sun StorEdge Traffic Manager Installation and Configuration Guide
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
The messages described below are logged and may also appear on the system console.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBDevice is using a hilevel intr\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The device was configured with an interrupt level that cannot be used with this \fBmtp\fR driver. Check the \fBPCI\fR device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBMap setup failed\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The driver was unable to map device registers; check for bad hardware. Driver did not attach to device; \fBSCSI\fR devices are inaccessible.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBCannot map configuration space\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The driver was unable to map in the configuration registers. Check for bad hardware. \fBSCSI\fR devices will be inaccessible.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBAttach failed\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The driver was unable to attach; usually preceded by another warning that indicates why attach failed. These can be considered hardware failures.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBConnected command timeout for Target <id>.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This is usually a SCSI bus problem. Check cables and termination.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBTarget <id> reducing sync. transfer rate\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A data transfer hang or \fBDATA-IN\fR phase parity error was detected. The driver attempts to eliminate this problem by reducing the data transfer rate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBTarget <id> reverting to async. mode\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A second data transfer hang was detected for this target. The driver attempts to eliminate this problem by reducing the data transfer rate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBTarget <id> disabled wide SCSI mode\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A second data phase hang was detected for this target. The driver attempts to eliminate this problem by disabling wide \fBSCSI\fR mode.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBmpt\fR driver supports the parallel SCSI LSI 53c1030 controller. The LSI 53c1030 controller series supports  Wide, Fast and Ultra SCSI 4 mode. The maximum LVD SCSI bandwidth is 320 MB/sec.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmpt\fR driver exports properties indicating the negotiated transfer speed per target (\fBtarget<n>-sync-speed\fR), whether wide bus is supported (\fBtarget<n>-wide\fR) for that particular target (\fBtarget<n>-scsi-options\fR), and whether tagged queuing has been enabled (\fBtarget<n>-T\fRQ). The \fBsync-speed\fR property value indicates the data transfer rate in KB/sec. The \fBtarget<n>-TQ\fR and the \fBtarget<n>-wide property\fR have value 1 (to indicate that the corresponding capability is enabled for that target), or 0 (to indicate that the capability is disabled for that target). See \fBprtconf\fR(1M) (verbose option) for details on viewing the \fBmpt\fR properties. 
.sp
.in +2
.nf
scsi, instance #4
    Driver properties:
        name='target8-TQ' type=int items=1 dev=none
            value=00000001
        name='target8-wide' type=int items=1 dev=none
            value=00000001
        name='target8-sync-speed' type=int items=1 dev=none
            value=00013880
        name='target5-TQ' type=int items=1 dev=none
            value=00000001
        name='target5-wide' type=int items=1 dev=none
            value=00000001
        name='target5-sync-speed' type=int items=1 dev=none
            value=00013880
        name='target4-TQ' type=int items=1 dev=none
            value=00000001
        name='target4-wide' type=int items=1 dev=none
            value=00000001
        name='target4-sync-speed' type=int items=1 dev=none
            value=00013880
        name='pm-components' type=string items=3 dev=none
            value='NAME=mpt4' + '0=Off (PCI D3 State)' + '3=On (PCI \e
            D0 State)'
        name='scsi-selection-timeout' type=int items=1 dev=(238,0)
            value=000000fa
        name='scsi-options' type=int items=1 dev=(238,0)
            value=00103ff8
        name='scsi-watchdog-tick' type=int items=1 dev=(238,0)
            value=0000000a
        name='scsi-tag-age-limit' type=int items=1 dev=(238,0)
            value=00000002
        name='scsi-reset-delay' type=int items=1 dev=(238,0)
            value=00000bb8
.fi
.in -2
.sp

