'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved 
.TH ntwdt 7D "05 Feb 2005" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
ntwdt \- Netra\(embased application watchdog timer driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
/dev/ntwdt
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBntwdt\fR driver is a multithreaded, loadable, non-STREAMS pseudo driver that provides an application with an interface for controlling a system watchdog timer.
.sp
.LP
The \fBntwdt\fR driver implements a \fBvirtual watchdog timer\fR that a privileged application (Effective UID == 0) controls via IOCTLs.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
You configure the \fBntwdt\fR driver by modifying the contents of the \fBntwdt.conf\fR file.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
An \fBopen()\fR fails if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBEPERM\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Effective user ID is not zero.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBENOENT\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
\fB/dev/ntwdt\fR is not present or driver is not installed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBEAGAIN\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
\fB/dev/ntwdt\fR has already been successfully open()'d.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB/dev/ntwdt\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
Special character device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBkernel/drv/sparcv9/ntwdt\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
SPARC ntwdt driver binary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBkernel/drv/ntwdt.conf\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
.rt  
Driver configuraton file.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/kernel/platform
_
ArchitectureSPARC 
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdriver.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
