'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Emulex Corporation. All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH oce 7D "16 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
oce \- Emulex OneConnect 10 GBit Ethernet Adapter Driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/dev/oce*
.fi
.in -2

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBoce\fR 10 GBit ethernet adapter driver is a STREAMS based GLD (NIC driver) for 10G Ethernet functions on the Emulex OneConnect cards.
.sp
.LP
The \fBoce\fR driver initializes the NIC functions on the chip and implements send/receive of frames. The driver provides statistics and error reporting. The driver also supports multicast and promiscuous modes for send/receive, VLANs, lso, and so forth. The driver supports \fBmtu\fR of 1500 or 9000.
.SS "Configuration"
.sp
.LP
The device can be configured using tools such as \fBdladm\fR or \fBifconfig\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmtu\fR can be changed using the \fBdladm set-linkprop\fR command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
dladm set-linkprop -p mtu=9000 oce0
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The only valid value for speed/mode is 10 Gbps/full-duplex.
.sp
.LP
The interfaces created by the \fBoce\fR driver can be configured through \fBifconfig\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ifconfig oce0 plumb xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx up ifconfig oce0 down unplumb
.fi
.in -2

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/oce\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
32-bit ELF kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/oce\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
64-bit ELF kernel module, x86
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/oce\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
64-bit ELF kernel module, SPARC
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC, x86
_
Availabilitydriver/fc/emlxs
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdladm\fR(1M), \fBifconfig\fR(1M), \fBnetstat\fR(1M), \fBprtconf\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBdlpi\fR(7P)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
\fINetwork Interface Guide\fR
.sp
.LP
\fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE 802.3ae Specificiation, IEEE - 2002\fR
