'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH usbser_edge 7D "18 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
usbser_edge \- Digi Edgeport USB to serial converter driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <fcntl.h>
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <sys/termios.h>
.fi

.LP
.nf
usbser_edge@unit
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBusbser_edge\fR driver is a loadable STREAMS and USBA (Solaris USB architecture) compliant client driver that provides basic asynchronous communication support for Digi Edgeport USB-to-serial converters. Supported devices include Edgeport/1, Edgeport/2, Edgeport/21, Edgeport/4, Edgeport/421, Edgeport/8, and Edgeport/416. Serial device streams are built with appropriate modules that are pushed atop the \fBusbser_edge\fR driver by the \fBautopush\fR(1M) facility.
.sp
.LP
The \fBusbser_edge\fR module supports the \fBtermio\fR(7I) device control functions specified by flags in the \fBc_cflag\fR word of the \fBtermios\fR structure, and by the \fBIGNBRK\fR, \fBIGNPAR\fR, \fBPARMRK\fR and \fBINPCK\fR flags in the \fBc_iflag\fR word of the \fBtermios\fR structure. All other \fBtermio\fR(7I) functions must be performed by STREAMS modules pushed atop the driver. When a device is opened, the \fBldterm\fR(7M) and \fBttcompat\fR(7M) STREAMS modules are automatically pushed on top of the stream, providing the standard \fBtermio\fR(7I) interface.
.sp
.LP
Use device logical names \fB/dev/term/[0-9]*\fR to access the serial ports. These names are typically used to provide a logical access point for a dial-in line that is used with a modem.
.sp
.LP
To allow a single tty line to be connected to a modem and used for incoming and outgoing calls, a special feature is available that is controlled by the minor device number. By accessing through device logical name\fB/dev/cua/[0-9]*\fR, you can open a port without the Carrier Detect signal being asserted, either through hardware or an equivalent software mechanism. These devices are commonly known as dial-out lines. 
.sp
.LP
Unlike onboard serial ports, the \fBusbser_edge\fR ports cannot serve as a local serial console.
.SH APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE
.sp
.LP
A dial-in line can be opened only if the corresponding dial-out line is closed. A blocking \fB/dev/term\fR open waits until the \fB/dev/cua\fR line is closed (which drops Data Terminal Ready, after which Carrier Detect usually drops as well) and carrier is detected again. A non-blocking\fB/dev/term\fR open returns an error if the \fB/dev/cua\fR is open. 
.sp
.LP
If the \fB/dev/term\fR line is opened successfully (usually only when carrier is recognized on the modem), the corresponding \fB/dev/cua\fR line cannot be opened. This allows a modem and port to be used for dial-in (by enabling the line for login in \fB/etc/inittab\fR) or dial-out (by \fBtip\fR(1), or \fBuucp\fR(1C)) when no one is logged in on the line.
.sp
.LP
Device hot-removal is functionally equivalent to modem disconnect event, as defined in \fBtermio\fR(7I).
.SH IOCTLS
.sp
.LP
The \fBusbser_edge\fR driver supports the standard set of \fBtermio\fR(7I) ioctl calls.
.sp
.LP
Input and output line speeds can be set to the following baud rates: 0, 50, 75, 110, 134, 150, 200, 300, 600, 1200, 1800, 2400, 4800, 9600, 19200, 38400, 57600, 115200, or 230400. Input and output line speeds cannot be set independently; for example, when the output speed is set, the input speed is automatically set to the same speed.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
An \fBopen()\fR fails under the following conditions:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENXIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
The unit being opened does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
The \fB/dev/cua\fR (dial-out) device is being opened while the/dev/term (dial-in device) is open, or the dial-in device is being opened with a no-delay open while the dial-out device is open.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
The unit has been marked as exclusive-use by another process with a \fBTIOCEXCL\fR \fBioctl()\fR call.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
.rt  
USB device I/O error.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/usbser_edge\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit x86 ELF kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/usbser_edge\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit x86 ELF kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/usbser_edge\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit SPARC ELF kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/usbser_edge.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
configures communication mode
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/cua/[0-9]*\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
dial-out tty lines
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/term/[0-9]*\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
dial-in tty lines
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC, x86, PCI-based systems
_
Availabilitydriver/serial/usbser_edge
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBstrconf\fR(1), \fBtip\fR(1), \fBuucp\fR(1C), \fBautopush\fR(1M), \fBioctl\fR(2), \fBopen\fR(2), \fBtermios\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBusba\fR(7D), \fBtermio\fR(7I), \fBldterm\fR(7M), \fBttcompat\fR(7M)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
In addition to being logged, the following messages may appear on the system console. All messages are formatted in the following manner: 
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Warning: <device path> (usbser_edge<instance num>): Error Message...
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBDevice was disconnected while open. Data may have been lost.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The device was hot-removed or powered off while it was open and a possible data transfer was in progress. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBDevice is not identical to the previous one on this port. Please disconnect and reconnect.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The device was hot-removed while open. A new device was hot-inserted which is not identical to the original device. Please disconnect the device and reconnect the original device to the same port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBDevice has been reconnected, but data may have been lost.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The device that was hot-removed from its USB port has been re-inserted again to the same port. It is available for access but data from a previous transfer may be lost.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBCannot access <device>. Please reconnect.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This device has been disconnected because a device other than the original one has been inserted. The driver informs you of this fact by displaying the name of the original device.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following messages may be logged into the system log. They are formatted in the following manner:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<device path><usbser_edge<instance number>): message...
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBInput overrun\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
Data was lost.
.RE

