'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH wusb_df 7D "16 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
wusb_df, hwa1480_fw \- WUSB firmware download driver and firmware module for Intel i1480 chipset
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBwusb_df\fR driver is a Solaris USB Architecture (USBA) compliant client driver that is used to download firmware for Host Wire Adapter (HWA) dongles that use Intel i1480 chipsets.
.sp
.LP
Currently, the \fBwusb_df\fR driver can only download driver for Intel i1480 based HWA dongles. The \fBhwa1480_fw\fR is a miscellaneous module which is transformed from Intel's firmware binary version RC1.3PA2-20070828. \fBwusb_df\fR reads firmware data from \fBhwa1480_fw\fR module and downloads it to HWA hardware.
.sp
.LP
Users can use \fBelfwrap\fR(1) to transform new firmware binary. Users must use the same name as \fBhwa1480_fw\fR, since \fBwusb_df\fR only recognizes this symbol.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/wusb_df\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit ELF 86 kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/wusb_df\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit SPARC ELF kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/wusb_df\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit x86 ELF kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/misc/hwa_1480\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit ELF 86 kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/misc/sparcv9/hwa_1480\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit SPARC ELF kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/hwa_1480\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit x86 ELF kernel module
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
ArchitectureSPARC, x86, PCI-based systems
_
Availabilitysystem/io/usb
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBelfwrap\fR(1)\fBadd_drv\fR(1M), \fBrem_drv\fR(1M), \fBupdate_drv\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIOracle Solaris Administration: Common Tasks\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIWireless Universal Serial Bus Specification 1.0\fR
.sp
.LP
http://www.usb.org
.sp
.LP
http://www.sun.com
