'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH pool_component_info 3POOL "23 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Pool Configuration Manipulation Library Functions"
.SH NAME
pool_component_info, pool_get_owning_resource \- resource pool component functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lpool\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ] 
#include <pool.h>

\fBconst char *\fR\fBpool_component_info\fR(\fBpool_conf_t *\fR\fIconf\fR,
     \fBpool_component_t *\fR\fIcomponent\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpool_resource_t *\fR\fBpool_get_owning_resource\fR(\fBpool_conf_t *\fR\fIconf\fR,
     \fBpool_component_t *\fR\fIcomponent\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Certain resources, such as processor sets, are composed of resource components. Informational and ownership attributes of resource components are made available with the \fBpool_component_info()\fR and \fBpool_get_owning_resource()\fR functions. The \fIconf\fR argument for each function refers to the target configuration to which the operation applies.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpool_component_info()\fR function returns a string describing \fIcomponent\fR. The string is allocated with \fBmalloc\fR(3C). The caller is reponsible for freeing the returned string. The \fIflags\fR argument is ignored.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpool_get_owning_resource()\fR function returns the resource currently containing \fIcomponent\fR.  Every component is contained by a resource.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBpool_component_info()\fR returns a string. Otherwise it returns \fINULL\fR and \fBpool_error\fR(3POOL) returns the pool-specific error value.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBpool_get_owning_resource()\fR returns the owning resource. Otherwise it returns \fINULL\fR and \fBpool_error()\fR returns the pool-specific error value.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBpool_component_info()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPOE_BADPARAM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The supplied configuration's status is not \fBPOF_VALID\fR or the \fIflags\fR paramter is neither 0 or 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPOE_INVALID_CONF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The configuration is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPOE_SYSTEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
A system error has occurred. Check the system error code for more details.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBpool_get_owning_resource()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBPOE_BADPARAM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
The supplied configuration's status is not \fBPOF_VALID\fR.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSIEnabled
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibpool\fR(3LIB), \fBpool_error\fR(3POOL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
