'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH v12n 3EXT "14 Jul 2010" "SunOS 5.11" "Extended Library Functions"
.SH NAME
v12n, v12n_capabilities, v12n_domain_roles, v12n_domain_name, v12n_domain_uuid, v12n_ctrl_domain, v12n_chassis_serialno \- return virtualization environment domain parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lv12n [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libv12n.h>

int v12n_capabilities();
.fi

.LP
.nf
int v12n_domain_roles();
.fi

.LP
.nf
int v12n_domain_uuid(uuid_t \fIuuid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
size_t v12n_domain_name(char *\fIbuf\fR, size_t \fIbuflen\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
size_t v12n_ctrl_domain(char *\fIbuf\fR, size_t \fIbuflen\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
size_t v12n_chassis_serialno(char *\fIbuf\fR, size_t \fIbuflen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBv12n_capabilities()\fR function returns the virtualization capabilities mask of the current domain. The virtualization capabilities bit mask consists of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBV12N_CAP_SUPPORTED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Virtualization is supported on this domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBV12N_CAP_ENABLED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Virtualization is enabled on this domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBV12N_CAP_IMPL_LDOMS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Logical Domains is the supported virtualization implementation.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBv12n_domain_roles()\fR function returns the virtualization domain role mask. The virtualization domain role mask consists of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBV12N_ROLE_CONTROL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
If the virtualization implementation is Logical Domains, and this bit is one, the current domain is a control domain. If this bit is zero, the current domain is a guest domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBV12N_ROLE_IO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
Current domain is an I/O domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBV12N_ROLE_SERVICE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
Current domain is a service domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBV12N_ROLE_ROOT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
.rt  
Current domain is an root I/O domain.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBv12n_domain_uuid()\fR function stores the universally unique identifier (UUID) for the current virtualization domain in the \fBuuid\fR argument. See the \fBlibuuid\fR(3LIB) manual page.
.sp
.LP
The \fBv12n_domain_name()\fR function stores the name of the current virtualization domain in the location specified by \fIbuf\fR. \fIbuflen\fR specifies the size in bytes of the buffer. If the buffer is too small to hold the complete null-terminated name, the first \fIbuflen\fR bytes of the name are stored in the buffer. A buffer of size \fBV12N_NAME_MAX\fR is sufficient to hold any domain name. If \fIbuf\fR is NULL or \fIbuflen\fR is 0, the name is not copied into the buffer.
.sp
.LP
The \fBv12n_ctrl_domain()\fR function stores the control domain or dom0 network node name of the current domain in the location specified by \fIbuf\fR. Note that a domain's control domain is volatile during a domain migration. The information returned by this function might be stale if the domain was in the process of migrating. \fIbuflen\fR specifies the size in bytes of the buffer. If the buffer is too small to hold the complete null-terminated name, the first \fIbuflen\fR bytes of the name are stored in the buffer. A buffer of size \fBV12N_NAME_MAX\fR is sufficient to hold the control domain node name string. If \fIbuf\fR is NULL or \fIbuflen\fR is 0, the name is not copied into the buffer.
.sp
.LP
The \fBv12n_chassis_serialno()\fR function stores the chassis serial number of the platform on which the current domain is running in the location specified by \fIbuf\fR. Note that the chassis serial number is volatile during a domain migration. The information returned by this function might be stale if the domain was in the process of migrating. \fIbuflen\fR specifies the size in bytes of the buffer. If the buffer is too small to hold the complete null-terminated name, the first \fIbuflen\fR bytes of the name are stored in the buffer. A buffer of size \fBV12N_NAME_MAX\fR is sufficient to hold any chassis serial number string. If \fIbuf\fR is NULL or \fIbuflen\fR is 0, the name is not copied into the buffer.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
On successful completion, the \fBv12n_capabilties()\fR and \fBv12n_domain_roles()\fR functions return a non-negative bit mask. Otherwise, the \fBv12n_domain_roles()\fR function returns -1 and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
On successful completion, the \fBv12n_domain_uuid()\fR function returns 0. Otherwise, the \fBv12n_domain_uuid()\fR function returns -1 and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
On successful completion, the \fBv12n_domain_name()\fR, \fBv12n_ctrl_domain()\fR, and \fBv12n_chassis_serialno()\fR functions return the buffer size required to hold the full non-terminated string. Otherwise, these functions return -1 and set \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBv12n_domain_roles()\fR function fails with \fBEPERM\fR when the calling process has an ID other than the privileged user.
.sp
.LP
The \fBv12n_domain_name()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The calling process has an ID other than the privileged user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOTSUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Virtualization is not supported or enabled on this domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
\fIbuf\fR points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The \fBsun4v\fR machine description is inaccessible or has no \fBuuid\fR node.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBv12n_domain_uuid()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The calling process has an ID other than the privileged user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOTSUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Virtualization is not supported or enabled on this domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
\fIbuf\fR points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The \fBsun4v\fR machine description is inaccessible or has no \fBuuid\fR node.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBv12n_ctrl_domain()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The calling process has an ID other than the privileged user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOTSUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Virtualization is not supported or enabled on this domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
\fIbuf\fR points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBETIME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The domain service on the control domain did not respond within the timeout value.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBv12n_chassis_serialno()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The calling process has an ID other than the privileged user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBENOTSUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Virtualization is not supported or enabled on this domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
\fIbuf\fR points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBETIME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The domain service on the control domain did not respond within the timeout value.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBvirtinfo\fR(1M), \fBlibuuid\fR(3LIB), \fBlibv12n\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
