'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH grpck 1B "7 Mar 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Package Commands"
.SH NAME
grpck \- check group database entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/grpck\fR [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgrpck\fR utility checks that a file in \fBgroup\fR(4) does not contain any errors; it checks the \fB/etc/group\fR file by default.
.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/group\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgroups\fR(1), \fBgroup\fR(4), \fBpasswd\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBToo many/few fields\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An entry in the group file does not have the proper number of fields.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNo group name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The group name field of an entry is empty.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBBad character(s) in group name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The group name in an entry contains characters other than lower-case letters and digits.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBInvalid GID\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The group ID field in an entry is not numeric or is greater than 65535.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNull login name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A login name in the list of login names in an entry is null.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLogname not found in password file\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A login name in the list of login names in an entry is not in the password file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBLine too long\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A line (including the NEWLINE character) in the group file exceeds the maximum length of 512 characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDuplicate logname entry\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A login name appears more than once in the list of login names for a group file entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBOut of memory\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The program cannot allocate memory in order to continue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBMaximum groups exceeded for logname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A login name's group membership exceeds the maximum, \fBNGROUPS_MAX\fR.
.RE

