'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH touch 1B "26 Oct 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "SunOS/BSD Compatibility Package Commands"
.SH NAME
touch \- change file access and modification times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/touch\fR [\fB-acfm\fR] \fIfile\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBtouch\fR sets the access and modification times of each file to the current time. \fBfile\fR is created if it does not already exist.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Change the access time of \fBfile\fR. Do not change the modification time unless \fB-m\fR is also specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Do not create \fBfile\fR if it does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Attempt to force the touch in spite of read and write permissions on \fBfile\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Change the modification time of \fBfile\fR. Do not change the access time unless \fB-a\fR is also specified.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBtouch\fR when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
\fBtouch\fR executed successfully and all requested changes were made.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
An error occurred. \fBtouch\fR returns the number of files for which the times could not be successfully modified.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitycompatibility/ucb
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBtouch\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5)
