'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH fbio 7I "28 Oct 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "Ioctl Requests"
.SH NAME
fbio \- frame buffer control operations
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The frame buffers provided with this release support the same general interface that is defined by \fB<sys/fbio.h>\fR\&. Each responds to an \fBFBIOGTYPE\fR \fBioctl\fR(2) request which returns information in a \fBfbtype\fR structure.
.sp
.LP
Each device has an \fBFBTYPE\fR which is used by higher-level software to determine how to perform graphics functions. Each device is used by opening it, doing an \fBFBIOGTYPE\fR \fBioctl()\fR to see which frame buffer type is present, and thereby selecting the appropriate device-management routines.
.sp
.LP
\fBFBIOGINFO\fR returns information specific to the GS accelerator.
.sp
.LP
\fBFBIOSVIDEO\fR and \fBFBIOGVIDEO\fR are general-purpose \fBioctl()\fR requests for controlling possible video features of frame buffers. These \fBioctl()\fR requests either set or return the value of a flags integer. At this point, only the \fBFBVIDEO_ON\fR option is available, controlled by \fBFBIOSVIDEO\fR. \fBFBIOGVIDEO\fR returns the current video state.
.sp
.LP
The \fBFBIOSATTR\fR and \fBFBIOGATTR\fR \fBioctl()\fR requests allow access to special features of newer frame buffers. They use the  \fBfbsattr\fR and \fBfbgattr\fR structures.
.sp
.LP
Some color frame buffers support the \fBFBIOPUTCMAP\fR and \fBFBIOGETCMAP\fR \fBioctl()\fR requests, which provide access to the colormap. They use the \fBfbcmap\fR structure.
.sp
.LP
Also, some framebuffers with multiple colormaps will either encode the colormap identifier in the high-order bits of the \fBindex\fR field in the fbcmap structure, or use the \fBFBIOPUTCMAPI\fR and \fBFBIOGETCMAPI\fR \fBioctl()\fR requests.
.sp
.LP
\fBFBIOVERTICAL\fR is used to wait for the start of the next vertical retrace period.
.sp
.LP
\fBFBIOVRTOFFSET\fR Returns the offset to a read-only \fIvertical retrace page\fR for those framebuffers that support it.  This vertical retrace page may be mapped into user space with \fBmmap\fR(2). The first word of the vertical retrace page (type unsigned int) is a counter that is incremented every time there is a vertical retrace.  The user process can use this counter in a variety of ways.
.sp
.LP
\fBFBIOMONINFO\fR returns a mon_info structure which contains information about the monitor attached to the framebuffer, if available.
.sp
.LP
\fBFBIOSCURSOR\fR, \fBFBIOGCURSOR\fR, \fBFBIOSCURPOS\fR and \fBFBIOGCURPOS\fR are used to control the hardware cursor for those framebuffers that have this feature. \fBFBIOGCURMAX\fR returns the maximum sized cursor supported by the framebuffer.  Attempts to create a cursor larger than this will fail.
.sp
.LP
Finally \fBFBIOSDEVINFO\fR and \fBFBIOGDEVINFO\fR are used to transfer variable-length, device-specific information into and out of framebuffers.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBioctl\fR(2), \fBmmap\fR(2)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
The \fBFBIOSATTR\fR and \fBFBIOGATTR\fR \fBioctl()\fR requests are only supported by frame buffers which emulate older frame buffer types. If a frame buffer emulates another frame buffer, \fBFBIOGTYPE\fR returns the emulated type. To get the real type, use \fBFBIOGATTR\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBFBIOGCURPOS\fR ioctl was incorrectly defined in previous operating systems, and older code running in binary compatibility mode may get incorrect results.
