'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH auth_attr 4 "10 Mar 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
auth_attr \- authorization description database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/security/auth_attr\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/security/auth_attr\fR is a local source for authorization names and descriptions. The \fBauth_attr\fR file can be used with other authorization sources, including the \fBauth_attr\fR \fBNIS\fR map. Programs use the \fBgetauthattr\fR(3C) routines to access this information.
.sp
.LP
The search order for multiple authorization sources is specified in the \fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR file, as described in the \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4) man page.
.sp
.LP
An authorization is a right assigned to users that is checked by certain privileged programs to determine whether users can execute restricted functionality. Each entry in the \fBauth_attr\fR database consists of one line of text containing six fields separated by colons (\fB:\fR). Line continuations using the backslash (\fB\e\fR) character are permitted. The format of each entry is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIname\fR:\fIres1\fR:\fIres2\fR:\fIshort_desc\fR:\fIlong_desc\fR:\fIattr\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
The name of the authorization. Authorization names are unique strings. Construct authorization names using the following convention:
.sp
\fIprefix.\fR or \fIprefix.suffix\fR
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIprefix\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Everything in the name field up to the final dot (\fB\&.\fR). Authorizations from Sun Microsystems, Inc. use \fBsolaris\fR as a prefix. To avoid name conflicts, all other authorizations should use a prefix that begins with the reverse-order Internet domain name of the organization that creates the authorization (for example, \fBcom.xyzcompany\fR). Prefixes can have additional arbitrary components chosen by the authorization's developer, with components separated by dots.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsuffix\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The final component in the name field. Specifies what is being authorized.
.sp
When there is no suffix, the name is defined as a heading. Headings are not assigned to users but are constructed for use by applications in their \fBGUI\fRs.
.RE

To assign an authorization, the user needs to have both the authorization itself and the \fBsolaris.auth.delegate\fR authorization.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIres1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
The characters \fBRO\fR in this field indicate it is read only and not modifiable by the tools that update this database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIres2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Reserved for future use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIshort_desc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
A short description or terse name for the authorization. This name should be suitable for displaying in user interfaces, such as in a scrolling list in a \fBGUI\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIlong_desc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
A long description. This field can explain the precise purpose of the authorization, the applications in which it is used, and the type of user that would be interested in using it. The long description can be displayed in the help text of an application.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIattr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
An optional list of semicolon-separated (\fB;\fR) key-value pairs that describe the attributes of an authorization. Zero or more keys can be specified. The keyword \fBhelp\fR identifies a help file in HTML.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRConstructing a Name
.sp
.LP
In the following example, the name has a prefix (\fBsolaris.admin.usermgr\fR) followed by a suffix (\fBread\fR):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
solaris.admin.usermgr.read
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRDefining a Heading
.sp
.LP
Because the name field ends with a dot, the following entry defines a heading:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
solaris.user.:::User Accounts::help=AuthUsermgrHeader.html
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRAssigning Separate Authorizations to Set User Attributes
.sp
.LP
In this example, a heading entry is followed by other associated authorization entries. The entries below the heading provide separate authorizations for setting user attributes. The \fIattr\fR field for each entry, including the heading entry, assigns a help file. The application that uses the \fBhelp\fR key requires the value to equal the name of a file ending in \fB\&.htm\fR or \fB\&.html\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
solaris.role.:::Role Accounts::help=AuthRoleManageHeader.html
solaris.role.manage:::Manage Role Accounts::help=AuthRoleManage.html
solaris.role.delegate:::Delegate Role Accounts::help=AuthRoleDelegate.html
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRAssigning a Grant Authorization
.sp
.LP
This example assigns to an administrator the following authorizations:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
solaris.auth.delegate
solaris.user.manage
solaris.role.manage
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
With the above authorizations, the administrator can assign to others the \fBsolaris.user.manage\fR and \fBsolaris.role.manage\fR authorizations, but not any other authorization. If the administrator has both the \fBsolaris.auth.delegate\fR and the \fBsolaris.*.manage\fR authorization, it would be equivalent to the above authorizations. See \fBuser_attr\fR(4) for more information about how wildcards can be used to assign multiple authorizations whose names have the same components. 

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRAuthorizing the Ability to Assign Other Authorizations
.sp
.LP
The following entry defines an authorization that grants the ability to assign any authorization.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
solaris.auth.assign:::Grant All Solaris Authorizations::help=PriAdmin.html
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 6 \fRConsulting the Local Authorization File Ahead of the NIS Table
.sp
.LP
With the following entry from \fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR, the local \fBauth_attr\fR file is consulted before the \fBLDAP\fR name service:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
auth_attr:files ldap
.fi
.in -2

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/user_attr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/security/auth_attr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Locally added entries. Make sure that the shipped header remains intact.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/security/auth_attr.d/*\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Entries added by package installation.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBauths\fR(1), \fBgetauthattr\fR(3C), \fBgetexecattr\fR(3C), \fBgetprofattr\fR(3C), \fBgetuserattr\fR(3C), \fBexec_attr\fR(4), \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4), \fBuser_attr\fR(4) 
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Because the list of legal keys is likely to expand, any code that parses this database must be written to ignore unknown key-value pairs without error. When any new keywords are created, the names should be prefixed with a unique string, such as the company's stock symbol, to avoid potential naming conflicts.
.sp
.LP
Each application has its own requirements for whether the help value must be a relative pathname ending with a filename or the name of a file. The only known requirement is for the name of a file.
.sp
.LP
The following characters are used in describing the database format and must be escaped with a backslash if used as data: colon (\fB:\fR), semicolon (\fB;\fR), equals (\fB=\fR), and backslash (\fB\e\fR).
.sp
.LP
The authorization required to add/modify/delete authorizations is \fBsolaris.auth.manage\fR. The \fBsolaris.auth.assign\fR authorization allows an authorized user to grant any authorization to a user. The \fBsolaris.auth.delegate\fR allows an authorized user to grant only the user's authorizations to another user. 
