'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH autofs 4 "18 Aug 2010" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
autofs \- file containing parameter values for automountd daemon and automount command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/default/autofs\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The settings formerly managed by the \fBautofs\fR file have been moved to SMF properties and are now managed by \fBsharectl\fR(1M). The functionality described here is provided for backward compatibility only.
.sp
.LP
The \fBautofs\fR file resides in directory \fB/etc/default\fR and supplies default parameters for the \fBautomountd\fR(1M) daemon and the \fBautomount\fR(1M) command.
.sp
.LP
The \fBautofs\fR file format is \fBASCII\fR; comment lines begin with the crosshatch (\fB#\fR) character. Parameters consist of a keyword followed by an equal sign followed by the parameter value, of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIkeyword\fR=\fIvalue\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
As shipped, the parameters in the \fBautofs\fR file are commented out. As root, you must uncomment a keyword-value line to make the value for that parameter take effect.
.sp
.LP
Administrators can make changes to the startup parameters for \fBautomountd\fR by logging in as root and editing the \fBautofs\fR file. Changes made to \fBautofs\fR values on an \fBautomount\fR or \fBautomountd\fR command line override values in \fB/etc/default/autofs\fR. The \fB/etc/default/autofs\fR file is preserved across operating system upgrades.
.sp
.LP
The following parameters are currently supported in the \fBautofs\fR file:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAUTOMOUNT_TIMEOUT=\fR\fI<num>\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a duration, in seconds, that a file system is to remain mounted when not in use. The default value is 600 (10 minutes). Equivalent to the \fB-t\fR option in \fBautomount\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAUTOMOUNT_VERBOSE=\fR\fBTRUE | FALSE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Verbose mode. Causes you to be notified of non-critical events, suchs as \fBautofs\fR mounts and unmounts. The default value is \fBFALSE\fR. Equivalent to the \fB-v\fR option in \fBautomount\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAUTOMOUNTD_VERBOSE=\fR\fBTRUE | FALSE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Verbose mode. Causes status messages to be logged to \fB/var/svc/log/system-filesystem-autofs:default.log\fR. (See \fBsmf\fR(5).) The default value is \fBFALSE\fR. Equivalent to the \fB-v\fR option in \fBautomountd\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAUTOMOUNTD_NOBROWSE=\fR\fI<num>\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Turn on or off browsing for all \fBautofs\fR mount points. The default value is \fBFALSE\fR. Equivalent to the \fB-n\fR option in \fBautomountd\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAUTOMOUNTD_TRACE=\fR\fI<num>\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Expands each RPC call and logs it to \fB/var/svc/log/system-filesystem-autofs:default.log\fR. (See \fBsmf\fR(5).) The default value, \fB0\fR, turns off such tracing. Starting with 1, with each higher value, the verbosity of trace output increases.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBAUTOMOUNTD_ENV\fR=\fI<name>\fR\fB=\fR\fI<value>\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Environment variables. Each environment variable-value pairing must be on its own line. You can specify multiple such pairings. There are no environment variable settings supplied. For example: \fBAUTOMOUNTD_ENV=DAY=TUES\fR
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBautomount\fR(1M), \fBautomountd\fR(1M), \fBsharectl\fR(1M), \fBsmf\fR(5)
