'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH crypt.conf 4 "8 Jul 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
crypt.conf \- configuration file for pluggable crypt modules
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
/etc/security/crypt.conf
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBcrypt.conf\fR is the configuration file for the pluggable crypt architecture. Each crypt module must provide a function to generate a password hash, \fBcrypt_genhash_impl\fR(3C), and a function to generate the salt, \fBcrypt_gensalt_impl\fR(3C).
.sp
.LP
The \fBmodule_path\fR field specifies the pathname to a shared library object that implements \fBcrypt_genhash_impl()\fR and \fBcrypt_gensalt_impl()\fR. If the pathname is not absolute, it is assumed to be relative to \fB/usr/lib/security/$ISA\fR. If the pathname contains the \fB$ISA\fR token, the token is replaced by an implementation-defined directory name that defines the path relative to the calling program's instruction set architecture.
.sp
.LP
The third field is used to pass module-specific options to the shared objects. See \fBcrypt_genhash_impl\fR(3C) and \fBcrypt_gensalt\fR(3C). It is the responsibility of the module to parse and interpret the options. The params field can be used by the modules to turn on debugging or to pass any module-specific parameters that control the output of the hashing algorithm
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRIncreasing the Work Factor
.sp
.LP
The following example increases the work factor to 12 for the \fBcrypt_bsdbf\fR(5) module.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
2a /usr/lib/security/$ISA/crypt_bsdbf.so 12
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRSetting the Rounds
.sp
.LP
The following example sets the rounds for the \fBcrypt_sunmd5\fR(5) module:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
md5 /usr/lib/security/$ISA/crypt_sunmd5.so rounds=2000
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRUsing the Default \fB/etc/security/crypt.conf\fR
.sp
.LP
The following default \fB/etc/security/crypt.conf\fR supports five plugins: 

.sp
.in +2
.nf
1      crypt_bsdmd5.so.1
2a     crypt_bsdbf.so.1
md5    crypt_sunmd5.so.1
5      crypt_sha256.so.1
6      crypt_sha512.so.1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpasswd\fR(1), \fBcrypt\fR(3C), \fBcrypt_genhash_impl\fR(3C), \fBcrypt_gensalt\fR(3C), \fBcrypt_gensalt_impl\fR(3C), \fBgetpassphrase\fR(3C), \fBpasswd\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBcrypt_bsdbf\fR(5), \fBcrypt_bsdmd5\fR(5), \fBcrypt_sha256\fR(5), \fBcrypt_sha512\fR(5), \fBcrypt_sunmd5\fR(5), \fBcrypt_unix\fR(5)
