'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH ndmp 4 "4 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
ndmp \- configuration properties for Solaris Network Data Management Protocol (NDMP) server
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The behavior of the Solaris NDMP server is specified by property values that are stored in the Service Management Facility, \fBsmf\fR(5). 
.sp
.LP
An authorized user can use the \fBndmpadm\fR(1M) command to set global values for these properties in SMF. 
.sp
.LP
The \fBndmpd\fR service requires a restart by \fBsvcadm\fR(1M) whenever properties are set. This restart is required whether the properties are set by \fBndmpadm\fR(1M) or \fBsvccfg\fR(1M). 
.sp
.LP
\fItcp-port\fR is the TCP port number that the NDMP service accepts for incoming connections. The default is 10000.
.sp
.LP
You can set the following properties by using the \fBndmpadm set\fR command:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBbackup-quarantine\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Backup the files marked as quarantined by AV. Acceptable values are \fByes\fR or \fBno\fR. The default is \fBno\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdar-support\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Set the Direct Access Recovery mode. Acceptable values are \fByes\fR or \fBno\fR. The default is \fBno\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdebug-level\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Set the debug level. The debug-level can be set to either \fB0\fR (off) or \fB1\fR (on). The default is \fB0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdebug-path\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
The path to which to save the debug log. The default is \fB/var/ndmp\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdrive-type\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Choose either SystemV or BSD tape drives for the data management application. Valid values are \fBsysv\fR and \fBbsd\fR. The default is \fBsysv\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBdump-pathnode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Enable or disable backing up the directories containing modified files or directories in \fBdump\fR(1) backup format. Acceptable values are yes or no. The default is no.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBignore-ctime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Determines whether the change timestamp (\fBctime\fR) of files and directories is used to determine whether a file should be backed up in level backup. If this parameter is set to \fByes\fR, only the modification time (\fBmtime\fR) of the file or directory determines whether it should be backed up. Acceptable values are \fByes\fR or \fBno\fR. The default value is \fBno\fR. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBoverwrite-quarantine\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Restore quarantined files on top of current files if they already exist. Acceptable values are \fByes\fR or \fBno\fR. The default value is \fBno\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrestore-quarantine\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Restore the files that had been marked as quarantined by AV and are backed up. Acceptable values are yes or no. The default value is no.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtar-pathnode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Enable or disable backing up the directories containing modified files or directories in \fBtar\fR(1) backup format. Acceptable values are \fByes\fR or \fBno\fR. The default value is \fBno\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtoken-maxseq\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Set the maximum sequence number for subsequent token-based incremental backup in NDMP-V4. The default value is \fB9\fR. There are two limits for this value: soft-limit, which is \fB59\fR, and hard-limit, equal to \fB64\fR. If the token sequence number, passed by the DMA, is between the soft and hard limits, a warning message is issued to the DMA. The token sequence number can never exceed the hard-limit value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBtype-override\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Override the value of \fBTYPE\fR. Valid values are \fBzfs\fR and \fBoff\fR. By default, \fBtype-override\fR has a value of \fBoff\fR and does not override \fBTYPE\fR. Invalid values are treated as \fBoff\fR.
.sp
If \fBtype-override\fR is set to \fBzfs\fR, the user must make sure that the path format used in the data management application is consistent with the \fBzfs\fR backup type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBversion\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Set the maximum active NDMP protocol version. Valid values are currently \fB2\fR, \fB3\fR, and \fB4\fR. The default is \fB4\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBzfs-force-override\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt  
Override the value of \fBZFS_FORCE\fR. \fByes\fR forces a value of \fBy\fR. \fBno\fR forces a value of \fBn\fR. By default, \fBzfs-force-override\fR has a value of \fBoff\fR and does not override \fBZFS_FORCE\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following property can only be set when using the \fBndmpadm enable\fR or \fBndmpadm disable\fR command:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBauth-type\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Sets the password encryption type for the authentication of local users. Valid values are \fBcram-md5\fR or \fBcleartext\fR.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/storage/ndmp
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdump\fR(1), \fBtar\fR(1), \fBndmpadm\fR(1M), \fBndmpd\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBsvccfg\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
