'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH note 4 "17 Jan 1995" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
note \- specify legal annotations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/note\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Each file in this directory contains the \fBNOTE\fR (also \fB_NOTE\fR) annotations legal for a single tool.  The name of the file, by convention, should be the tool vendor's stock name, followed by a hyphen, followed by the tool name. For example, for Sun's \fBlock_lint\fR tool the filename should be \fBSUNW-lock_lint\fR.
.sp
.LP
The file should contain the names of the annotations understood by the tool, one per line.  For example, if a tool understands the following annotations:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
NOTE(NOT_REACHED)
NOTE(MUTEX_PROTECTS_DATA(list_lock, list_head))
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
then its file in \fB/usr/lib/note\fR should contain the entries:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
NOT_REACHED
MUTEX_PROTECTS_DATA
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Blank lines, and lines beginning with a pound (#), are ignored.
.sp
.LP
While \fB/usr/lib/note\fR is the default directory tools search for such files, they can be made to search other directories instead simply by setting environment variable \fBNOTE\fR\fBPATH\fR to contain the paths, separated by colons, of directories to be searched, e.g., \fB/usr/mytool/note:/usr/lib/note\fR.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
These files are used by such tools whenever they encounter \fBNOTE\fRs they do not understand.  If a file in \fB/usr/lib/note\fR contains the annotation, then it is valid.  If no such file contains the annotation, then the tool should issue a warning complaining that it might be invalid.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNOTE\fR\fBPATH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
specify paths to be searched for annotation files. Paths are separated by colons (":").
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBNOTE\fR(3EXT)
