'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH nss 4 "10 Dec 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
nss \- configuration file for initgroups
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/default/nss\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fB/etc/default/nss\fR configuration file provides methods for \fBinitgroups\fR(3C) lookup method. The file also provides a method to disable address sorting by name lookup functions. The file controls the behavior of the name service switch routines outside of the source database mappings provided by the \fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR file.
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/default/nss\fR supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBNETID_AUTHORITATIVE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
Changes the behavior of the name service lookups to use the \fBnetid\fR table in response to the \fBinitgroups()\fR call. By default, \fBinitgroups()\fR uses the \fBgroup\fR table. When \fBNETID_AUTHORITATIVE\fR is set to TRUE, \fBinitgroups()\fR uses \fBnetid\fR as the source for supplementary groups rather than the \fBgroup\fR table.
.sp
The name service administrator must ensure that the \fBnetid\fR table contains valid supplementary group information for users. Not all name services can automatically keep the members listed in the \fBgroup\fR table in sync with the \fBnetid\fR table.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSORT_ADDRS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
If this option is set to FALSE, the sorting of addresses is disabled on addresses that are returned by name lookup functions such as \fBinitgroups()\fR, \fBgethostbyname\fR(3NSL), \fBnetdir_getbyname\fR(3NSL), \fBgetaddrinfo\fR(3SOCKET), and \fBgetipnodebyname\fR(3SOCKET). Setting this option to FALSE is useful when the order of addresses returned by the nameserver needs to be maintained. To use the DNS round robin feature, for example, address sorting by name lookup functions should be disabled.
.sp
By default, address sorting is enabled.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgetaddrinfo\fR(3SOCKET), \fBgethostbyname\fR(3NSL), \fBgetipnodebyname\fR(3SOCKET), \fBinitgroups\fR(3C), \fBnetdir_getbyname\fR(3NSL), \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
