'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH service_bundle 4 "2 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
service_bundle \- service manifest file format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/share/lib/xml/dtd/service_bundle.dtd.1\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The service management facility, described in \fBsmf\fR(5), utilizes an XML-based file format to marshal the description of a set of services or service instances between systems. This file is known as a service bundle. The primary form of a service bundle is the inventory of services that are provided by a package, which is called a \fBservice manifest\fR.
.sp
.LP
The DTD describing the \fBservice_bundle\fR is provided at \fB/usr/share/lib/xml/dtd/service_bundle.dtd.1\fR. The attributes and tags are fully described in the commented DTD. The services supplied with the operating system, stored under \fB/lib/svc/manifest\fR, provide examples of correctly formed service descriptions.
.sp
.LP
\fBservice_bundle\fR documents can also use the XML Inclusions (\fBXInclude\fR) facility to merge multiple documents into one. A \fBservice_bundle\fR document manipulator must therefore support the functionality defined by the XInclude specification.
.sp
.LP
A complete service description consists of the following: 
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A set of properties that identify the service and identify its restarter
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A set of properties that identify each instance
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A set of framework property groups that describe the framework's understanding of each instance 
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A set of method property groups as required by \fBsvc.startd\fR(1M), or by a delegated restarter
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Additional optional method property groups
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A set of dependency property groups
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An optional group of properties that indicate services to which dependencies on the described service were added
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A set of application property groups or application-specific typed property groups containing application configuration data
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A template that describes supporting information about this service, such as a description, links to documentation, and metadata about property groups and properties.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The document type definition for the service bundle provides markup to define each of these aspects of a service description, as well as a number of entities that identify regular features in describing a service, such as the \fB<create_default_instance>\fR tag. 
.SS "Manifest Handling During Packaging Operations"
.sp
.LP
Service manifests within packages should be identified with the class \fBmanifest\fRin SVR4 packages and with the attribute \fBrestart_fmri=svc:/system/manifest-import:default\fR in IPS packages. Class action scripts that install and remove service manifests are included in the SVR4 packaging subsystem. When such a package is installed, the service manifest is imported.
.sp
.LP
When a package is uninstalled, service instances in the manifest that are disabled are deleted. Any services in the manifest with no remaining instances are also deleted.
.sp
.LP
If the \fB-R\fR option is supplied to \fBpkg\fR(1), \fBpkgadd\fR(1M), or \fBpkgrm\fR(1M), the actions described in this section are done when the system is next rebooted with that alternate root path.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/core-os
_
StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpkgadd\fR(1M), \fBpkgrm\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBsvccfg\fR(1M), \fBsvc.startd\fR(1M), \fBlibscf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBlocale\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5), \fBsmf_method\fR(5), \fBsmf_template\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fBpkg\fR(1), \fBpkg\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Nested \fBservice_bundle\fR elements must be of the same type.
