'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2010, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH smbautohome 4 "19 Mar 2010" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
smbautohome \- SMB autohome configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsmbautohome\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Solaris SMB server can automatically share home directories when an SMB client connects. The \fBautohome\fR map file, \fB/etc/smbautohome\fR, uses the search options and rules to determine whether to share a home directory when an SMB client connects to the server.
.sp
.LP
For example, the following entries specify the autohome rules for a particular environment:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
+nsswitch	    dn=ad,dn=sun,dn=com,ou=users
jane    /home/?/&    dn=ad,dn=sun,dn=com,ou=users
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The \fBnsswitch\fR autohome entry uses the naming service to match users to home directories. The second autohome entry specifies that the home directory for user \fBjane\fR is \fB/home/j/jane\fR.
.SS "autohome Map Entry Format"
.sp
.LP
A map entry, which is also referred to as a mapping, uses the following format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIkey\fR \fIlocation\fR [ \fIoptions\fR ]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\fIkey\fR is a user name, \fIlocation\fR is the fully qualified path for the user's home directory, and \fIoptions\fR specifies the share options, for example, an AD container or description. See \fBshare_smb\fR(1M) for information on share options.
.sp
.LP
If you intend to publish the share in Active Directory (AD), you \fBmust\fR specify an AD container name, which is specified as a comma-separated list of attribute name-value pairs. The attributes use the LDAP distinguished name (DN) or relative distinguished name (RDN) format.
.sp
.LP
The DN or RDN must be specified in LDAP format by using the following attribute types:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBcn=\fR represents the common name
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBou=\fR represents the organizational unit
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBdc=\fR represents the domain component
.RE
.sp
.LP
The attribute type that is used to describe an object's RDN is called a \fBnaming attribute\fR. AD uses the naming attributes as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBcn\fR for the \fBuser\fR object class
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBou\fR for the \fBOU\fR (organizational unit) object class
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBdc\fR for the \fBdomainDns\fR object class
.RE
.SS "autohome Map Key Substitution"
.sp
.LP
The autohome feature supports the following wildcard substitutions for the value of the key field:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The ampersand character (\fB&\fR) is expanded to the value of the key field for the entry in which it occurs. In the following example, \fB&\fR expands to \fBjane\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
jane /home/&
.fi
.in -2

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The question mark character (\fB?\fR) is expanded to the value of the first character in the key field for the entry in which it occurs. In the following example, \fB?\fR expands to \fBj\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
jane /home/?/&
.fi
.in -2

.RE
.SS "Wildcard Rule"
.sp
.LP
When supplied in the key field, the asterisk character (\fB*\fR) is recognized as the "catch-all" entry. Such an entry matches any key not previously matched.
.sp
.LP
For example, the following entry would map any user to a home directory in \fB/home\fR in which the home directory name was the same as the user name:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
*    /home/&
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The wildcard rule is \fBonly\fR applied if an appropriate rule is not matched by another map entry.
.SS "NSSwitch Map"
.sp
.LP
The \fBnsswitch\fR map is used to request that the home directory be obtained from a password database, such as the local, NIS, or LDAP databases. If an AD path is appended, it is used to publish shares.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
+nsswitch
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Like the "catch-all" entry, the \fBnsswitch\fR map is \fBonly\fR searched if an appropriate rule is not matched by another map entry.
.sp
.LP
The wildcard and \fBnsswitch\fR rules are mutually exclusive. Do not include an \fBnsswitch\fR rule if a wildcard rule has already been defined.
.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/smbautohome\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See the \fBattributes\fR(5) man page for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityservice/file-system/smb
_
Interface StabilityUncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsharectl\fR(1M), \fBsmbadm\fR(1M), \fBsmbd\fR(1M), \fBsmbstat\fR(1M), \fBsmb\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
