'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH smhba.conf 4 "28 Sep 2009" "SunOS 5.11" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
smhba.conf \- configuration file for the SMHBAAPI library
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fB/etc/smhba.conf\fR file is used to specify the Vendor-Specific Libraries that are installed on the system. This file is used by the Common Library to load the individual VSLs when \fBHBA_LoadLibrary\fR(3HBAAPI) is called. If changes are made to the file while the library is in use, the library should be freed and reloaded. A version 1 VSL is compatible only with a version 1 Common Library. A version 2 VSL is compatible with both a version 1 and a version 2 Common Library.
.sp
.LP
Each VSL entry is a single line of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"name"	    "library path"
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
is the description of library. The library name should be prepended with the domain of the manufacturer of the library.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIlibrary path\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
is the absolute path to the shared object library file.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRContents of \fB/etc/smhba.conf\fR
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# 
# This file contains names and references to SM-HBA libraries
#
# Format:
#
# <library name>  <library pathname>
#
# The library name should be prepended with the domain of
# the manufacturer or driver author.
com.sun.sashba        /usr/lib/libsun_sas.so.1
com.sun.sashba64      /usr/lib/64/libsun_sas.so.1
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
StandardT{
ANSI INCITS 428  Storage Management Host Bus Adapter Application Programming Ingerface(SM-HBA)
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBHBA_LoadLibrary\fR(3HBAAPI), \fBlibSMHBAAPI\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The SMHBAAPI library is provided in both 32-and 64-bit versions, but only one configuration file is specified. As a result, both 32- and 64-bit VSL libraries must be specified within the same file. When using the 32-bit Common Library, the 64-bit VSLs will fail to load. When using the 64-bit Common Library, the 32-bit VSLs will fail to load. These failures are silently ignored by the Common Library during normal usage, but can result in warning messages when running client applications in a debugger.
