'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH Task 3PERL "1 Dec 2002" "SunOS 5.11" "Perl Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Task \- Perl interface to Tasks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
use Sun::Solaris::Task qw(:ALL);
my $taskid = gettaskid();
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This module provides wrappers for the \fBgettaskid\fR(2) and \fBsettaskid\fR(2) system calls.
.SS "Constants"
.sp
.LP
\fBTASK_NORMAL\fR, \fBTASK_FINAL\fR.
.SS "Functions"
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsettaskid($project, $flags)\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fB$project\fR parameter must be a valid project ID and the \fB$flags\fR parameter must be \fBTASK_NORMAL\fR or \fBTASK_FINAL\fR. The parameters are passed through directly to the underlying \fBsettaskid()\fR system call. The new task ID is returned if the call succeeds. On failure \(mi1 is returned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBgettaskid()\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the numeric task ID of the calling process, or \fBundef\fR if the underlying \fBgettaskid()\fR system call is unsuccessful.
.RE

.SS "Class methods"
.sp
.LP
None.
.SS "Object methods"
.sp
.LP
None.
.SS "Exports"
.sp
.LP
By default nothing is exported from this module. The following tags can be used to selectively import constants and functions defined in this module:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB:SYSCALLS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
\fBsettaskid()\fR and \fBgettaskid()\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB:CONSTANTS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
\fBTASK_NORMAL\fR and \fBTASK_FINAL\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB:ALL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
\fB:SYSCALLS\fR and \fB:CONSTANTS\fR
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilityruntime/perl-510/module/sun-solaris
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgettaskid\fR(2), \fBsettaskid\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5)
