'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH scf_service_is_masked 3SCF "16 Jun 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Configuration Facility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
scf_service_is_masked, scf_instance_is_masked, scf_pg_is_masked, scf_property_is_masked \- determine whether entities are masked in the Service Configuration Facility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lscf [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libscf.h>

int scf_service_is_masked(const scf_service_t *\fIsvc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
int scf_instance_is_masked(const scf_instance_t *\fIinst\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
int scf_pg_is_masked(const scf_propertygroup_t *\fIpg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
int scf_property_is_masked(const scf_property_t *\fIprop\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Entities are masked if an administrator has requested they be deleted, but the entity is backed by configuration in the filesystem such as manifests and profiles.
.sp
.LP
Masked entities are not discovered through \fBlibscf\fR(3LIB) unless the caller decorates the initial handle with \fBscf_handle_decorate\fR(\fIh\fR, "show_masked", \fBSCF_DECORATE_TRUE\fR). If the caller needs to ignore masked entities, it must explicitly call one of the functions described on this manual page to determine the entity is masked.
.sp
.LP
These functions allow consumers to determine whether an entity is masked.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If the entity is not masked, these functions return 0. If the entity is masked, they return 1. In the event of error, they return \(mi1.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSCF_ERROR_EXISTS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entity is not masked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSCF_ERROR_DELETED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entity or one of its parents has been deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSCF_ERROR_NOT_SET\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entity is not set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSCF_ERROR_NOT_BOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The repository handle is not bound.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSCF_ERROR_CONNECTION_BROKEN\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The connection to the repository was lost.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBscf_error\fR(3SCF) function can be used to retrieve the error value.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibscf\fR(3LIB), \fBscf_error\fR(3SCF), \fBscf_handle_create\fR(3SCF), \fBscf_handle_decode_fmri\fR(3SCF), \fBscf_iter_create\fR(3SCF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
