'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH scf_service_delcust 3SCF "16 Jun 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Service Configuration Facility Library Functions"
.SH NAME
scf_service_delcust, scf_instance_delcust, scf_pg_delcust, scf_property_delcust \- remove administrative customizations in the Service Configuration Facility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lscf [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libscf.h>

int scf_service_delcust(scf_service_t *\fIsvc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
int scf_instance_delcust(scf_instance_t *\fIinst\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
int scf_pg_delcust(scf_propertygroup_t *\fIpg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
int scf_transaction_property_delcust(scf_transaction_t *\fIt\fR,
      scf_transaction_entry_t *\fIe\fR, const char *\fIprop\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The *\fB_delcust()\fR family of commands allows \fBlibscf\fR(3LIB) consumers to remove all administrative customizations for an entity with one function. This includes removing any "masked" notations previously created by using the \fBscf_*_delete()\fR functions.
.sp
.LP
The customizations at the administrative layer can be explored with the \fBget_decoration\fR suite of functions. See \fBscf_service_get_decoration\fR(3SCF).
.sp
.LP
The customizations removed are all customizations for the entity and its children, if any exist.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return 0. Otherwise they return \(em1.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSCF_ERROR_DELETED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entity or one of its parents has been deleted by somebody else.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSCF_ERROR_NOT_SET\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entity is not set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSCF_ERROR_NOT_BOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The repository handle is not bound.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSCF_ERROR_CONNECTION_BROKEN\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The connection to the repository was lost.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSCF_ERROR_NO_RESOURCES\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The server does not have  adequate resources for a new scope handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSCF_ERROR_PERMISSION_DENIED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The user does not have sufficient privileges delete customizations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSCF_ERROR_BACKEND_READONLY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The repository backend is read-only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSCF_ERROR_BACKEND_ACCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The repository backend refused the modification.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBscf_error\fR(3SCF) function can be used to retrieve the error value.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibscf\fR(3LIB), \fBscf_error\fR(3SCF), \fBscf_handle_decode_fmri\fR(3SCF), \fBscf_service_get_decoration\fR(3SCF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
