'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH rpc_gss_max_data_length 3NSL "22 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rpc_gss_max_data_length, rpc_gss_svc_max_data_length \- get maximum data length for  transmission
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpcsec_gss.h> 

\fBint\fR \fBrpc_gss_max_data_length\fR(\fBAUTH\fR \fI*handle\fR, \fBint\fR \fImax_tp_unit_len\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBrpc_gss_svc_max_data_length\fR(\fBstruct svc_req\fR \fI*req\fR, \fBint\fR \fImax_tp_unit_len\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Performing a security transformation on a piece of data generally produces  data with a different (usually greater) length.  For some transports, such as UDP, there is a maximum length of data which can be sent out in one data unit. Applications need to know the maximum size a piece of data can be before it's transformed, so that the resulting data will still "fit" on the transport. These two functions return that maximum size.
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc_gss_max_data_length()\fR is the client-side version; \fBrpc_gss_svc_max_data_length()\fR is the server-side version.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIhandle\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
An RPC context handle of type \fBAUTH,\fR returned when a context is created (for example, by \fBrpc_gss_seccreate()\fR. Security service and QOP are bound to this handle, eliminating any need to specify them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImax_tp_unit_len\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
The maximum size of a piece of data allowed by the transport.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIreq\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
A pointer to an RPC \fBsvc_req\fR structure, containing information on the context (for example, program number and credentials).
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Both functions return the maximum size of untransformed data allowed, as an \fBint\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library/security/rpcsec
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc\fR(3NSL), \fBrpcsec_gss\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5) 
.sp
.LP
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR 
.sp
.LP
Linn, J. \fIRFC 2078, Generic Security Service Application Program Interface, Version 2\fR. Network Working Group. January 1997. 
