'\" te
.\" Copyright (c)  2002, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH rpc_gss_get_error 3NSL "22 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rpc_gss_get_error \- get error codes on failure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpcsec_gss.h> 

\fBbool_t\fR \fBrpc_gss_get_error\fR(\fBrpc_gss_error_t\fR\fI*error\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc_gss_get_error()\fR fetches an error code when an \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR routine fails.
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc_gss_get_error()\fR uses a \fBrpc_gss_error_t\fR structure of the following form: 
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct {
int	rpc_gss_error;		\fIRPCSEC_GSS error\fR	
int	system_error;		\fIsystem error\fR   
} rpc_gss_error_t;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Currently the only error codes defined for this function are 
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#define RPC_GSS_ER_SUCCESS		0	/* no error */
#define RPC_GSS_ER_SYSTEMERROR	1	/* system error */
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Information on \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR data types for parameters may be found on the \fBrpcsec_gss\fR(3NSL) man page.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBerror\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
A  \fBrpc_gss_error_t\fR structure.  If the \fBrpc_gss_error\fR field is equal to  \fBRPC_GSS_ER_SYSTEMERROR,\fR the  \fBsystem_error\fR field will be set to the value of \fBerrno\fR. 
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Unless there is a failure indication from an invoked \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR function,  \fBrpc_gss_get_error()\fR does not set \fBerror\fR to a meaningful value.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library/security/rpcsec
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBperror\fR(3C), \fBrpc\fR(3NSL), \fBrpcsec_gss\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5) 
.sp
.LP
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR 
.sp
.LP
Linn, J. \fIRFC 2078, Generic Security Service Application Program Interface, Version 2\fR. Network Working Group. January 1997.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Only system errors are currently returned.
