'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, 2011, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.TH rpc_gss_get_mechanisms 3NSL "22 Aug 2011" "SunOS 5.11" "Networking Services Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rpc_gss_get_mechanisms, rpc_gss_get_mech_info, rpc_gss_get_versions, rpc_gss_is_installed \- get information on mechanisms and RPC version
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpcsec_gss.h> 

\fBchar **\fR\fBrpc_gss_get_mechanisms\fR(\fB\fR\fI\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar **\fR\fBrpc_gss_get_mech_info\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fImech\fR, \fBrpc_gss_service_t *\fR\fIservice\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBrpc_gss_get_versions\fR(\fBu_int *\fR\fIvers_hi\fR, \fBu_int *\fR\fIvers_lo\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t rpc_gss_is\fR \fBinstalled\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fImech\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These "convenience functions" return information on available security mechanisms and versions of  \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR .
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrpc_gss_get_mechanisms()\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
Returns a list of supported security mechanisms as a null-terminated list of character strings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrpc_gss_get_mech_info()\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
Takes two arguments:  an ASCII string representing a mechanism type, for example, \fBkerberosv5\fR, and a pointer to a \fBrpc_gss_service_t\fR enum. \fBrpc_gss_get_mech_info()\fR will return \fBNULL\fR upon error or if no \fB/etc/gss/qop\fR file is present. Otherwise, it returns a null-terminated list of character strings of supported Quality of Protections (QOPs) for this mechanism. \fBNULL\fR or empty list implies only that the default QOP is available and can be specified to routines that need to take a QOP string parameter as NULL or as an empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrpc_gss_get_versions()\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
Returns the highest and lowest versions of  \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBrpc_gss_is_installed()\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 29n
.rt  
Takes an ASCII string representing a mechanism, and returns \fBTRUE\fR if the mechanism is installed.
.RE

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Information on \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR data types for parameters may be found on the \fBrpcsec_gss\fR(3NSL) man page.
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImech\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
An ASCII string representing the security mechanism in use.  Valid strings may also be found in the \fB/etc/gss/mech\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIservice\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
A pointer to a \fBrpc_gss_service_t\fR enum, representing the current security service (privacy, integrity, or none).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIvers_hi\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fIvers_lo\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The highest and lowest versions of \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR supported.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/gss/mech\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
File containing valid security mechanisms
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/gss/qop\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
File containing valid QOP values
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Availabilitysystem/library/security/rpcsec
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc\fR(3NSL),\fBrpcsec_gss\fR(3NSL), \fBmech\fR(4), \fBqop\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5) 
.sp
.LP
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR 
.sp
.LP
Linn, J. \fIRFC 2743, Generic Security Service Application Program Interface Version 2, Update 1\fR. Network Working Group. January 2000.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
This function will change in a future release.
