'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH dat_cr_reject 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_cr_reject \- reject a Connection Request from the Active remote side requesting Endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ] 
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_cr_reject (
    IN    DAT_CR_HANDLE    cr_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcr_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Handle to an instance of a Connection Request that the Consumer is rejecting.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_cr_reject()\fR function rejects a Connection Request from the Active remote side requesting Endpoint. If the Provider passed a local Endpoint into a Consumer for the Public Service Point-created Connection Request, that Endpoint reverts to Provider Control. The behavior of an operation on that Endpoint is undefined. The local Endpoint that the Consumer provided for Reserved Service Point reverts to Consumer control, and the Consumer is free to use in any way it wants.
.sp
.LP
The operation is synchronous. This operation also destroys the Connection Request instance. Use of the handle of the destroyed Connection Request in any consequent operation fails.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The \fIcr_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
_
StandarduDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
