'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH dat_registry_remove_provider 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_registry_remove_provider \- unregister the Provider from the Dynamic Registry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ] 
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_registry_remove_provider  (
    IN       DAT_PROVIDER         *provider
    IN const DAT_PROVIDER_INFO    *provider_info
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIprovider\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
Self-description of a Provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIprovider_info\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
Attributes of the Provider.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Provider removes itself from the Dynamic Registry. It is the Provider's responsibility to complete its sessions. Removal of the registration only prevents new sessions.
.sp
.LP
The Provider cannot be removed while it is in use. An attempt to remove the Provider while it is in use results in an error with the return code \fBDAT_PROVIDER_IN_USE\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
Invalid parameter. The Provider was not found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_PROVIDER_IN_USE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
The Provider was in use.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-Level
_
StandarduDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
