'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH dat_psp_query 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_psp_query \- provide parameters of the Public Service Point
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ] 
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_psp_query (
    IN    DAT_PSP_HANDLE        psp_handle,
    IN    DAT_PSP_PARAM_MASK    psp_param_mask,
    OUT   DAT_PSP_PARAM         *psp_param
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpsp_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Handle for an instance of Public Service Point.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpsp_param_mask\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Mask for PSP parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpsp_param\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Pointer to a Consumer-allocated structure that Provider fills for Consumer-requested parameters.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_psp_query()\fR function provides to the Consumer parameters of the Public Service Point. Consumer passes in a pointer to the Consumer allocated structures for PSP parameters that Provider fills.
.sp
.LP
The \fIpsp_param_mask\fR parameter allows Consumers to specify which parameters they would like to query. The Provider will return values for \fIpsp_param_mask\fR requested parameters. The Provider may return the value for any of the other parameters.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
The \fIpsp_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
The \fIpsp_param_mask\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
_
StandarduDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
