'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH dat_rmr_query 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_rmr_query \- provide RMR parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ] 
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_rmr_query (
    IN    DAT_RMR_HANDLE        rmr_handle,
    IN    DAT_RMR_PARAM_MASK    rmr_param_mask,
    OUT   DAT_RMR_PARAM         *rmr_param
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIrmr_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Handle for an instance of the RMR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIrmr_param_mask\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Mask for RMR parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIrmr_param\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
.rt  
Pointer to a Consumer-allocated structure that the Provider fills with RMR parameters.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_rmr_query()\fR function provides RMR parameters to the Consumer. The Consumer passes in a pointer to the Consumer-allocated structures for RMR parameters that the Provider fills.
.sp
.LP
The \fIrmr_param_mask\fR parameter allows Consumers to specify which parameters to query. The Provider returns values for \fIrmr_param_mask\fR requested parameters. The Provider can return values for any other parameters.
.sp
.LP
Not all parameters can have a value at all times. For example, \fIlmr_handle\fR, \fItarget_address\fR, \fIsegment_length\fR, \fImem_privileges\fR, and \fIrmr_context\fR are not defined for an unbound RMR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
The \fIrmr_param_mask\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
The \fImr_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
_
StandarduDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
