'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH dat_strerror 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_strerror \- convert a DAT return code into human readable strings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ] 
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_strerror(
    IN    DAT_RETURN    return,
    OUT   const char    **major_message,
    OUT   const char    **minor_message
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIreturn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
DAT function return value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fImessage\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
A pointer to a character string for the return.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_strerror()\fR function converts a DAT return code into human readable strings. The \fImajor_message\fR is a string-converted \fBDAT_TYPE_STATUS\fR, while \fIminor_message\fR is a string-converted \fBDAT_SUBTYPE_STATUS\fR. If the return of this function is not \fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR, the values of \fImajor_message\fR and \fIminor_message\fR are not defined.
.sp
.LP
If an undefined \fBDAT_RETURN\fR value was passed as the return parameter, the operation fails with \fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR returned. The operation succeeds when \fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR is passed in as the return parameter.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
.rt  
Invalid parameter. The \fIreturn\fR value is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
_
StandarduDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
