'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH dat_evd_enable 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_evd_enable \- enable the Event Dispatcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ] 
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_evd_enable(
    IN    DAT_EVD_HANDLE    \fIevd_handle\fR
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIevd_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Handle for an instance of Event Dispatcher.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_evd_enable()\fR function enables the Event Dispatcher so that the arrival of an event can trigger the associated CNO. The enabling and disabling EVD has no effect on direct waiters on the EVD. However, direct waiters effectively take ownership of the EVD, so that the specified CNO is not triggered even if is enabled.
.sp
.LP
If the Event Dispatcher is already enabled, this operation is no-op.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The \fIevd_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
_
StandarduDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdat_evd_disable\fR(3DAT), \fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
