'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH dat_rsp_free 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_rsp_free \- destroy an instance of the Reserved Service Point
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ] 
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_rsp_free (
    IN    DAT_RSP_HANDLE    rsp_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIrsp_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
Handle for an instance of the Reserved Service Point.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_rsp_free()\fR function destroys a specified instance of the Reserved Service Point.
.sp
.LP
Any incoming Connection Requests for the Connection Qualifier on the destroyed Service Point was listening on are automatically rejected by the Provider with the return analogous to the no listening Service Point.
.sp
.LP
The behavior of the Connection Requests in progress is undefined and left to an implementation, but it must be consistent. This means that either a Connection Requested Event was generated for the Event Dispatcher associated with the Service Point, including the creation of the Connection Request instance, or the Connection Request is rejected by the Provider without any local notification.
.sp
.LP
This operation has no effect on previously generated Connection Request Event and Connection Request.
.sp
.LP
The behavior of this operation with creation of a Service Point on the same Connection Qualifier at the same time is not defined. Consumers are advised to avoid this scenario.
.sp
.LP
For the Reserved Service Point, the Consumer-provided Endpoint reverts to Consumer control. Consumers shall be aware that due to a race condition, this Reserved Service Point might have generated a Connection Request Event and passed the associated Endpoint to a Consumer in it.
.sp
.LP
Use of the handle of the destroyed Service Point in any consequent operation fails.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The \fIrsp_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
_
StandarduDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
