'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH dat_srq_free 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_srq_free \- destroy an instance of the shared receive queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ] 
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_srq_free (
    IN      DAT_SRQ_HANDLE      srq_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIsrq_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
.rt  
A handle for an instance of SRQ to be destroyed.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_srq_free()\fR function destroys an instance of the SRQ. The SRQ cannot be destroyed if it is in use by an EP.
.sp
.LP
It is illegal to use the destroyed handle in any consequent operation.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The \fIsrq_handle\fR argument is an invalid DAT handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SRQ_IN_USE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The Shared Receive Queue can not be destroyed because it is in still associated with an EP instance.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
If the Provider detects the use of a deleted object handle, it should return \fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR. The Provider should avoid assigning the used handle as long as possible. Once reassigned the handle is no longer a handle of a destroyed object.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
_
StandarduDAPL, 1.2
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdat_srq_create\fR(3DAT), \fBdat_srq_post_recv\fR(3DAT), \fBdat_srq_query\fR(3DAT), \fBdat_srq_resize\fR(3DAT), \fBdat_srq_set_lw\fR(3DAT), \fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
